**berkshire hathaway inc.**
    
    
    
    _to the shareholders of berkshire hathaway inc.:_
    
         first, a few words about accounting.  the merger with 
    diversified retailing company, inc. at yearend adds two new 
    complications in the presentation of our financial results.  
    after the merger, our ownership of blue chip stamps increased to 
    approximately 58% and, therefore, the accounts of that company 
    must be fully consolidated in the balance sheet and statement of 
    earnings presentation of berkshire.  in previous reports, our 
    share of the net earnings only of blue chip had been included as 
    a single item on berkshires statement of earnings, and there had 
    been a similar one-line inclusion on our balance sheet of our 
    share of their net assets.
    
         this full consolidation of sales, expenses, receivables, 
    inventories, debt, etc. produces an aggregation of figures from 
    many diverse businesses - textiles, insurance, candy, newspapers, 
    trading stamps - with dramatically different economic 
    characteristics.  in some of these your ownership is 100% but, in 
    those businesses which are owned by blue chip but fully 
    consolidated, your ownership as a berkshire shareholder is only 
    58%. (ownership by others of the balance of these businesses is 
    accounted for by the large minority interest item on the 
    liability side of the balance sheet.) such a grouping of balance 
    sheet and earnings items - some wholly owned, some partly owned - 
    tends to obscure economic reality more than illuminate it.  in 
    fact, it represents a form of presentation that we never prepare 
    for internal use during the year and which is of no value to us 
    in any management activities.
    
         for that reason, throughout the report we provide much 
    separate financial information and commentary on the various 
    segments of the business to help you evaluate berkshires 
    performance and prospects.  much of this segmented information is 
    mandated by sec disclosure rules and covered in managements 
    discussion on pages 29 to 34.  and in this letter we try to 
    present to you a view of our various operating entities from the 
    same perspective that we view them managerially.
    
         a second complication arising from the merger is that the 
    1977 figures shown in this report are different from the 1977 
    figures shown in the report we mailed to you last year.  
    accounting convention requires that when two entities such as 
    diversified and berkshire are merged, all financial data 
    subsequently must be presented as if the companies had been 
    merged at the time they were formed rather than just recently.  
    so the enclosed financial statements, in effect, pretend that in 
    1977 (and earlier years) the diversified-berkshire merger already 
    had taken place, even though the actual merger date was december 
    30, 1978.  this shifting base makes comparative commentary 
    confusing and, from time to time in our narrative report, we will 
    talk of figures and performance for berkshire shareholders as 
    historically reported to you rather than as restated after the 
    diversified merger.
    
         with that preamble it can be stated that, with or without 
    restated figures, 1978 was a good year.  operating earnings, 
    exclusive of capital gains, at 19.4% of beginning shareholders 
    investment were within a fraction of our 1972 record.  while we 
    believe it is improper to include capital gains or losses in 
    evaluating the performance of a single year, they are an 
    important component of the longer term record.  because of such 
    gains, berkshires long-term growth in equity per share has been 
    greater than would be indicated by compounding the returns from 
    operating earnings that we have reported annually.
    
         for example, over the last three years - generally a bonanza 
    period for the insurance industry, our largest profit producer - 
    berkshires per share net worth virtually has doubled, thereby 
    compounding at about 25% annually through a combination of good 
    operating earnings and fairly substantial capital gains.  neither 
    this 25% equity gain from all sources nor the 19.4% equity gain 
    from operating earnings in 1978 is sustainable.  the insurance 
    cycle has turned downward in 1979, and it is almost certain that 
    operating earnings measured by return on equity will fall this 
    year.  however, operating earnings measured in dollars are likely 
    to increase on the much larger shareholders equity now employed 
    in the business.
    
         in contrast to this cautious view about near term return 
    from operations, we are optimistic about prospects for long term 
    return from major equity investments held by our insurance 
    companies.  we make no attempt to predict how security markets 
    will behave; successfully forecasting short term stock price 
    movements is something we think neither we nor anyone else can 
    do.  in the longer run, however, we feel that many of our major 
    equity holdings are going to be worth considerably more money 
    than we paid, and that investment gains will add significantly to 
    the operating returns of the insurance group.
    
    _sources of earnings_
    
         to give you a better picture of just where berkshires 
    earnings are produced, we show below a table which requires a 
    little explanation.  berkshire owns close to 58% of blue chip 
    which, in addition to 100% ownership of several businesses, owns 
    80% of wesco financial corporation.  thus, berkshires equity in 
    wescos earnings is about 46%.  in aggregate, businesses that we 
    control have about 7,000 full-time employees and generate 
    revenues of over $500 million.
    
         the table shows the overall earnings of each major operating 
    category on a pre-tax basis (several of the businesses have low 
    tax rates because of significant amounts of tax-exempt interest 
    and dividend income), as well as the share of those earnings 
    belonging to berkshire both on a pre-tax and after-tax basis.  
    significant capital gains or losses attributable to any of the 
    businesses are not shown in the operating earnings figure, but 
    are aggregated on the realized securities gain line at the 
    bottom of the table.  because of various accounting and tax 
    intricacies, the figures in the table should not be treated as 
    holy writ, but rather viewed as close approximations of the 1977 
    and 1978 earnings contributions of our constituent businesses.
    
    _
                                                                             net earnings
                                       earnings before income taxes            after tax
                                  --------------------------------------  ------------------
                                        total          berkshire share     berkshire share
                                  ------------------  ------------------  ------------------
    (in thousands of dollars)       1978      1977      1978      1977      1978      1977_
                                  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
    total - all entities ......... $66,180   $57,089   $54,350   $42,234   $39,242   $30,393
                                  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========
    earnings from operations:
      insurance group:
        underwriting ............. $ 3,001   $ 5,802   $ 3,000   $ 5,802   $ 1,560   $ 3,017
        net investment income ....  19,705    12,804    19,691    12,804    16,400    11,360
      berkshire-waumbec textiles     2,916      (620)    2,916      (620)    1,342      (322)
      associated retail 
         stores, inc. ............   2,757     2,775     2,757     2,775     1,176     1,429
      sees candies ..............  12,482    12,840     7,013     6,598     3,049     2,974
      buffalo evening news .......  (2,913)      751    (1,637)      389      (738)      158
      blue chip stamps - parent ..   2,133     1,091     1,198       566     1,382       892
      illinois national bank
         and trust company .......   4,822     3,800     4,710     3,706     4,262     3,288
      wesco financial
         corporation - parent ....   1,771     2,006       777       813       665       419
      mutual savings and
         loan association ........  10,556     6,779     4,638     2,747     3,042     1,946
      interest on debt ...........  (5,566)   (5,302)   (4,546)   (4,255)   (2,349)   (2,129)
      other ......................     720       165       438       102       261        48
                                  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
        total earnings from
           operations ............ $52,384   $42,891   $40,955   $31,427   $30,052   $23,080
    realized securities gain .....  13,796    14,198    13,395    10,807     9,190     7,313
                                  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
        total earnings ........... $66,180   $57,089   $54,350   $42,234   $39,242   $30,393
                                  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========
    
         blue chip and wesco are public companies with reporting 
    requirements of their own.  later in this report we are 
    reproducing the narrative reports of the principal executives of 
    both companies, describing their 1978 operations.  some of the 
    figures they utilize will not match to the penny the ones we use 
    in this report, again because of accounting and tax complexities.  
    but their comments should be helpful to you in understanding the 
    underlying economic characteristics of these important partly-
    owned businesses.  a copy of the full annual report of either 
    company will be mailed to any shareholder of berkshire upon 
    request to mr. robert h. bird for blue chips stamps, 5801 south 
    eastern avenue, los angeles, california 90040, or to mrs. bette 
    deckard for wesco financial corporation, 315 east colorado 
    boulevard, pasadena, california 91109.
    
    _textiles_
    
         earnings of $1.3 million in 1978, while much improved from 
    1977, still represent a low return on the $17 million of capital 
    employed in this business.  textile plant and equipment are on 
    the books for a very small fraction of what it would cost to 
    replace such equipment today.  and, despite the age of the 
    equipment, much of it is functionally similar to new equipment 
    being installed by the industry.  but despite this bargain cost 
    of fixed assets, capital turnover is relatively low reflecting 
    required high investment levels in receivables and inventory 
    compared to sales.  slow capital turnover, coupled with low 
    profit margins on sales, inevitably produces inadequate returns 
    on capital.  obvious approaches to improved profit margins 
    involve differentiation of product, lowered manufacturing costs 
    through more efficient equipment or better utilization of people, 
    redirection toward fabrics enjoying stronger market trends, etc.  
    our management is diligent in pursuing such objectives.  the 
    problem, of course, is that our competitors are just as 
    diligently doing the same thing.
    
         the textile industry illustrates in textbook style how 
    producers of relatively undifferentiated goods in capital 
    intensive businesses must earn inadequate returns except under 
    conditions of tight supply or real shortage.  as long as excess 
    productive capacity exists, prices tend to reflect direct 
    operating costs rather than capital employed.  such a supply-
    excess condition appears likely to prevail most of the time in 
    the textile industry, and our expectations are for profits of 
    relatively modest amounts in relation to capital.
    
         we hope we dont get into too many more businesses with such 
    tough economic characteristics.  but, as we have stated before: 
    (1) our textile businesses are very important employers in their 
    communities, (2) management has been straightforward in reporting 
    on problems and energetic in attacking them, (3) labor has been 
    cooperative and understanding in facing our common problems, and 
    (4) the business should average modest cash returns relative to 
    investment.  as long as these conditions prevail - and we expect 
    that they will - we intend to continue to support our textile 
    business despite more attractive alternative uses for capital.
    
    _insurance underwriting_
    
         the number one contributor to berkshires overall excellent 
    results in 1978 was the segment of national indemnity companys 
    insurance operation run by phil liesche.  on about $90 million of 
    earned premiums, an underwriting profit of approximately $11 
    million was realized, a truly extraordinary achievement even 
    against the background of excellent industry conditions.  under 
    phils leadership, with outstanding assistance by roland miller 
    in underwriting and bill lyons in claims, this segment of 
    national indemnity (including national fire and marine insurance 
    company, which operates as a running mate) had one of its best 
    years in a long history of performances which, in aggregate, far 
    outshine those of the industry.  present successes reflect credit 
    not only upon present managers, but equally upon the business 
    talents of jack ringwalt, founder of national indemnity, whose 
    operating philosophy remains etched upon the company.
    
         home and automobile insurance company had its best year 
    since john seward stepped in and straightened things out in 1975.  
    its results are combined in this report with those of phil 
    liesches operation under the insurance category entitled 
    specialized auto and general liability.
    
         workers compensation was a mixed bag in 1978.  in its first 
    year as a subsidiary, cypress insurance company, managed by milt 
    thornton, turned in outstanding results.  the workers 
    compensation line can cause large underwriting losses when rapid 
    inflation interacts with changing social concepts, but milt has a 
    cautious and highly professional staff to cope with these 
    problems.  his performance in 1978 has reinforced our very good 
    feelings about this purchase.
    
         frank denardo came with us in the spring of 1978 to 
    straighten out national indemnitys california workers 
    compensation business which, up to that point, had been a 
    disaster.  frank has the experience and intellect needed to 
    correct the major problems of the los angeles office.  our volume 
    in this department now is running only about 25% of what it was 
    eighteen months ago, and early indications are that frank is 
    making good progress.
    
         george youngs reinsurance department continues to produce 
    very large sums for investment relative to premium volume, and 
    thus gives us reasonably satisfactory overall results.  however, 
    underwriting results still are not what they should be and can 
    be.  it is very easy to fool yourself regarding underwriting 
    results in reinsurance (particularly in casualty lines involving 
    long delays in settlement), and we believe this situation 
    prevails with many of our competitors.  unfortunately, self-
    delusion in company reserving almost always leads to inadequate 
    industry rate levels.  if major factors in the market dont know 
    their true costs, the competitive fall-out hits all - even 
    those with adequate cost knowledge.  george is quite willing to 
    reduce volume significantly, if needed, to achieve satisfactory 
    underwriting, and we have a great deal of confidence in the long 
    term soundness of this business under his direction.
    
         the homestate operation was disappointing in 1978.  our 
    unsatisfactory underwriting, even though partially explained by 
    an unusual incidence of midwestern storms, is particularly 
    worrisome against the backdrop of very favorable industry results 
    in the conventional lines written by our homestate group.  we 
    have confidence in john ringwalts ability to correct this 
    situation.  the bright spot in the group was the performance of 
    kansas fire and casualty in its first full year of business.  
    under floyd taylor, this subsidiary got off to a truly remarkable 
    start.  of course, it takes at least several years to evaluate 
    underwriting results, but the early signs are encouraging and 
    floyds operation achieved the best loss ratio among the 
    homestate companies in 1978.
    
         although some segments were disappointing, overall our 
    insurance operation had an excellent year.  but of course we 
    should expect a good year when the industry is flying high, as in 
    1978.  it is a virtual certainty that in 1979 the combined ratio 
    (see definition on page 31) for the industry will move up at 
    least a few points, perhaps enough to throw the industry as a 
    whole into an underwriting loss position.  for example, in the 
    auto lines - by far the most important area for the industry and 
    for us - cpi figures indicate rates overall were only 3% higher 
    in january 1979 than a year ago.  but the items that make up loss 
    costs - auto repair and medical care costs - were up over 9%.  
    how different than yearend 1976 when rates had advanced over 22% 
    in the preceding twelve months, but costs were up 8%.
    
         margins will remain steady only if rates rise as fast as 
    costs.  this assuredly will not be the case in 1979, and 
    conditions probably will worsen in 1980.  our present thinking is 
    that our underwriting performance relative to the industry will 
    improve somewhat in 1979, but every other insurance management 
    probably views its relative prospects with similar optimism - 
    someone is going to be disappointed.  even if we do improve 
    relative to others, we may well have a higher combined ratio and 
    lower underwriting profits in 1979 than we achieved last year.
    
         we continue to look for ways to expand our insurance 
    operation.  but your reaction to this intent should not be 
    unrestrained joy.  some of our expansion efforts - largely 
    initiated by your chairman have been lackluster, others have been 
    expensive failures.  we entered the business in 1967 through 
    purchase of the segment which phil liesche now manages, and it 
    still remains, by a large margin, the best portion of our 
    insurance business.  it is not easy to buy a good insurance 
    business, but our experience has been that it is easier to buy 
    one than create one.  however, we will continue to try both 
    approaches, since the rewards for success in this field can be 
    exceptional.
    
    _insurance investments_
    
         we confess considerable optimism regarding our insurance 
    equity investments.  of course, our enthusiasm for stocks is not 
    unconditional.  under some circumstances, common stock 
    investments by insurers make very little sense.
    
         we get excited enough to commit a big percentage of 
    insurance company net worth to equities only when we find (1) 
    businesses we can understand, (2) with favorable long-term 
    prospects, (3) operated by honest and competent people, and (4) 
    priced very attractively.  we usually can identify a small number 
    of potential investments meeting requirements (1), (2) and (3), 
    but (4) often prevents action.  for example, in 1971 our total 
    common stock position at berkshires insurance subsidiaries 
    amounted to only $10.7 million at cost, and $11.7 million at 
    market.  there were equities of identifiably excellent companies 
    available - but very few at interesting prices. (an irresistible 
    footnote: in 1971, pension fund managers invested a record 122% 
    of net funds available in equities - at full prices they couldnt 
    buy enough of them.  in 1974, after the bottom had fallen out, 
    they committed a then record low of 21% to stocks.)
    
         the past few years have been a different story for us.  at 
    the end of 1975 our insurance subsidiaries held common equities 
    with a market value exactly equal to cost of $39.3 million.  at 
    the end of 1978 this position had been increased to equities 
    (including a convertible preferred) with a cost of $129.1 million 
    and a market value of $216.5 million.  during the intervening 
    three years we also had realized pre-tax gains from common 
    equities of approximately $24.7 million.  therefore, our overall 
    unrealized and realized pre-tax gains in equities for the three 
    year period came to approximately $112 million.  during this same 
    interval the dow-jones industrial average declined from 852 to 
    805.  it was a marvelous period for the value-oriented equity 
    buyer.
    
         we continue to find for our insurance portfolios small 
    portions of really outstanding businesses that are available, 
    through the auction pricing mechanism of security markets, at 
    prices dramatically cheaper than the valuations inferior 
    businesses command on negotiated sales.
    
         this program of acquisition of small fractions of businesses 
    (common stocks) at bargain prices, for which little enthusiasm 
    exists, contrasts sharply with general corporate acquisition 
    activity, for which much enthusiasm exists.  it seems quite clear 
    to us that either corporations are making very significant 
    mistakes in purchasing entire businesses at prices prevailing in 
    negotiated transactions and takeover bids, or that we eventually 
    are going to make considerable sums of money buying small 
    portions of such businesses at the greatly discounted valuations 
    prevailing in the stock market. (a second footnote: in 1978 
    pension managers, a group that logically should maintain the 
    longest of investment perspectives, put only 9% of net available 
    funds into equities - breaking the record low figure set in 1974 
    and tied in 1977.)
    
         we are not concerned with whether the market quickly 
    revalues upward securities that we believe are selling at bargain 
    prices.  in fact, we prefer just the opposite since, in most 
    years, we expect to have funds available to be a net buyer of 
    securities.  and consistent attractive purchasing is likely to 
    prove to be of more eventual benefit to us than any selling 
    opportunities provided by a short-term run up in stock prices to 
    levels at which we are unwilling to continue buying.
    
         our policy is to concentrate holdings.  we try to avoid 
    buying a little of this or that when we are only lukewarm about 
    the business or its price.  when we are convinced as to 
    attractiveness, we believe in buying worthwhile amounts.
    
    equity holdings of our insurance companies with a market value of 
    over $8 million on december 31, 1978 were as follows:
    _
    no. of
    shares      company                                     cost       market
    ----------  -------                                  ----------  ----------
                                                             (000s omitted)_
      246,450   american broadcasting companies, inc. ... $  6,082    $  8,626
    1,294,308   government employees insurance company
                   common stock .........................    4,116       9,060
    1,986,953   government employees insurance company 
                   convertible preferred ................   19,417      28,314
      592,650   interpublic group of companies, inc. ....    4,531      19,039
    1,066,934   kaiser aluminum and chemical corporation    18,085      18,671
      453,800   knight-ridder newspapers, inc. ..........    7,534      10,267
      953,750   safeco corporation ......................   23,867      26,467
      934,300   the washington post company .............   10,628      43,445
                                                         ----------  ----------
                total ................................... $ 94,260    $163,889
                all other holdings ......................   39,506      57,040
                                                         ----------  ----------
                total equities .......................... $133,766    $220,929
                                                         ==========  ==========
    
         in some cases our indirect interest in earning power is 
    becoming quite substantial.  for example, note our holdings of 
    953,750 shares of safeco corp. safeco probably is the best run 
    large property and casualty insurance company in the united 
    states.  their underwriting abilities are simply superb, their 
    loss reserving is conservative, and their investment policies 
    make great sense.
    
         safeco is a much better insurance operation than our own 
    (although we believe certain segments of ours are much better 
    than average), is better than one we could develop and, 
    similarly, is far better than any in which we might negotiate 
    purchase of a controlling interest.  yet our purchase of safeco 
    was made at substantially under book value.  we paid less than 
    100 cents on the dollar for the best company in the business, 
    when far more than 100 cents on the dollar is being paid for 
    mediocre companies in corporate transactions.  and there is no 
    way to start a new operation - with necessarily uncertain 
    prospects - at less than 100 cents on the dollar.
    
         of course, with a minor interest we do not have the right to 
    direct or even influence management policies of safeco.  but why 
    should we wish to do this?  the record would indicate that they 
    do a better job of managing their operations than we could do 
    ourselves.  while there may be less excitement and prestige in 
    sitting back and letting others do the work, we think that is all 
    one loses by accepting a passive participation in excellent 
    management.  because, quite clearly, if one controlled a company 
    run as well as safeco, the proper policy also would be to sit 
    back and let management do its job.
    
         earnings attributable to the shares of safeco owned by 
    berkshire at yearend amounted to $6.1 million during 1978, but 
    only the dividends received (about 18% of earnings) are reflected 
    in our operating earnings.  we believe the balance, although not 
    reportable, to be just as real in terms of eventual benefit to us 
    as the amount distributed.  in fact, safecos retained earnings 
    (or those of other well-run companies if they have opportunities 
    to employ additional capital advantageously) may well eventually 
    have a value to shareholders greater than 100 cents on the 
    dollar.
    
         we are not at all unhappy when our wholly-owned businesses 
    retain all of their earnings if they can utilize internally those 
    funds at attractive rates.  why should we feel differently about 
    retention of earnings by companies in which we hold small equity 
    interests, but where the record indicates even better prospects 
    for profitable employment of capital? (this proposition cuts the 
    other way, of course, in industries with low capital 
    requirements, or if management has a record of plowing capital 
    into projects of low profitability; then earnings should be paid 
    out or used to repurchase shares - often by far the most 
    attractive option for capital utilization.)
    
         the aggregate level of such retained earnings attributable 
    to our equity interests in fine companies is becoming quite 
    substantial.  it does not enter into our reported operating 
    earnings, but we feel it well may have equal long-term 
    significance to our shareholders.  our hope is that conditions 
    continue to prevail in securities markets which allow our 
    insurance companies to buy large amounts of underlying earning 
    power for relatively modest outlays.  at some point market 
    conditions undoubtedly will again preclude such bargain buying 
    but, in the meantime, we will try to make the most of 
    opportunities.
    
    _banking_
    
         under gene abegg and pete jeffrey, the illinois national 
    bank and trust company in rockford continues to establish new 
    records.  last years earnings amounted to approximately 2.1% of 
    average assets, about three times the level averaged by major 
    banks.  in our opinion, this extraordinary level of earnings is 
    being achieved while maintaining significantly less asset risk 
    than prevails at most of the larger banks.
    
         we purchased the illinois national bank in march 1969.  it 
    was a first-class operation then, just as it had been ever since 
    gene abegg opened the doors in 1931.  since 1968, consumer time 
    deposits have quadrupled, net income has tripled and trust 
    department income has more than doubled, while costs have been 
    closely controlled.
    
         our experience has been that the manager of an already high-
    cost operation frequently is uncommonly resourceful in finding 
    new ways to add to overhead, while the manager of a tightly-run 
    operation usually continues to find additional methods to curtail 
    costs, even when his costs are already well below those of his 
    competitors.  no one has demonstrated this latter ability better 
    than gene abegg.
    
         we are required to divest our bank by december 31, 1980.  
    the most likely approach is to spin it off to berkshire 
    shareholders some time in the second half of 1980.
    
    _retailing_
    
         upon merging with diversified, we acquired 100% ownership of 
    associated retail stores, inc., a chain of about 75 popular 
    priced womens apparel stores.  associated was launched in 
    chicago on march 7, 1931 with one store, $3200, and two 
    extraordinary partners, ben rosner and leo simon.  after mr. 
    simons death, the business was offered to diversified for cash 
    in 1967.  ben was to continue running the business - and run it, 
    he has.
    
         associateds business has not grown, and it consistently has 
    faced adverse demographic and retailing trends.  but bens 
    combination of merchandising, real estate and cost-containment 
    skills has produced an outstanding record of profitability, with 
    returns on capital necessarily employed in the business often in 
    the 20% after-tax area.
    
         ben is now 75 and, like gene abegg, 81, at illinois national 
    and louie vincenti, 73, at wesco, continues daily to bring an 
    almost passionately proprietary attitude to the business.  this 
    group of top managers must appear to an outsider to be an 
    overreaction on our part to an oeo bulletin on age 
    discrimination.  while unorthodox, these relationships have been 
    exceptionally rewarding, both financially and personally.  it is 
    a real pleasure to work with managers who enjoy coming to work 
    each morning and, once there, instinctively and unerringly think 
    like owners.  we are associated with some of the very best.
    
    
                                        warren e. buffett, chairman
    
    march 26, 1979
    
    

