**berkshire hathaway inc.**
    
    
    
    _to the shareholders of berkshire hathaway inc.:_
    
         operating earnings improved to $41.9 million in 1980 from 
    $36.0 million in 1979, but return on beginning equity capital 
    (with securities valued at cost) fell to 17.8% from 18.6%. we 
    believe the latter yardstick to be the most appropriate measure 
    of single-year managerial economic performance.  informed use of 
    that yardstick, however, requires an understanding of many 
    factors, including accounting policies, historical carrying 
    values of assets, financial leverage, and industry conditions.
    
         in your evaluation of our economic performance, we suggest 
    that two factors should receive your special attention - one of a 
    positive nature peculiar, to a large extent, to our own 
    operation, and one of a negative nature applicable to corporate 
    performance generally.  lets look at the bright side first.
    
    _non-controlled ownership earnings_
    
         when one company owns part of another company, appropriate 
    accounting procedures pertaining to that ownership interest must 
    be selected from one of three major categories.  the percentage 
    of voting stock that is owned, in large part, determines which 
    category of accounting principles should be utilized.
    
         generally accepted accounting principles require (subject to 
    exceptions, naturally, as with our former bank subsidiary) full 
    consolidation of sales, expenses, taxes, and earnings of business 
    holdings more than 50% owned.  blue chip stamps, 60% owned by 
    berkshire hathaway inc., falls into this category.  therefore, 
    all blue chip income and expense items are included in full in 
    berkshires consolidated statement of earnings, with the 40% 
    ownership interest of others in blue chips net earnings 
    reflected in the statement as a deduction for minority 
    interest.
    
         full inclusion of underlying earnings from another class of 
    holdings, companies owned 20% to 50% (usually called 
    investees), also normally occurs.  earnings from such companies 
    - for example, wesco financial, controlled by berkshire but only 
    48% owned - are included via a one-line entry in the owners 
    statement of earnings.  unlike the over-50% category, all items 
    of revenue and expense are omitted; just the proportional share 
    of net income is included.  thus, if corporation a owns one-third 
    of corporation b, one-third of bs earnings, whether or not 
    distributed by b, will end up in as earnings.  there are some 
    modifications, both in this and the over-50% category, for 
    intercorporate taxes and purchase price adjustments, the 
    explanation of which we will save for a later day. (we know you 
    can hardly wait.)
    
         finally come holdings representing less than 20% ownership 
    of another corporations voting securities.  in these cases, 
    accounting rules dictate that the owning companies include in 
    their earnings only dividends received from such holdings.  
    undistributed earnings are ignored.  thus, should we own 10% of 
    corporation x with earnings of $10 million in 1980, we would 
    report in our earnings (ignoring relatively minor taxes on 
    intercorporate dividends) either (a) $1 million if x declared the 
    full $10 million in dividends; (b) $500,000 if x paid out 50%, or 
    $5 million, in dividends; or (c) zero if x reinvested all 
    earnings.
    
         we impose this short - and over-simplified - course in 
    accounting upon you because berkshires concentration of 
    resources in the insurance field produces a corresponding 
    concentration of its assets in companies in that third (less than 
    20% owned) category.  many of these companies pay out relatively 
    small proportions of their earnings in dividends.  this means 
    that only a small proportion of their current earning power is 
    recorded in our own current operating earnings.  but, while our 
    reported operating earnings reflect only the dividends received 
    from such companies, our economic well-being is determined by 
    their earnings, not their dividends.
    
         our holdings in this third category of companies have 
    increased dramatically in recent years as our insurance business 
    has prospered and as securities markets have presented 
    particularly attractive opportunities in the common stock area.  
    the large increase in such holdings, plus the growth of earnings 
    experienced by those partially-owned companies, has produced an 
    unusual result; the part of our earnings that these companies 
    retained last year (the part not paid to us in dividends) 
    exceeded the total reported annual operating earnings of 
    berkshire hathaway.  thus, conventional accounting only allows 
    less than half of our earnings iceberg to appear above the 
    surface, in plain view.  within the corporate world such a result 
    is quite rare; in our case it is likely to be recurring.
    
         our own analysis of earnings reality differs somewhat from 
    generally accepted accounting principles, particularly when those 
    principles must be applied in a world of high and uncertain rates 
    of inflation. (but its much easier to criticize than to improve 
    such accounting rules.  the inherent problems are monumental.) we 
    have owned 100% of businesses whose reported earnings were not 
    worth close to 100 cents on the dollar to us even though, in an 
    accounting sense, we totally controlled their disposition. (the 
    control was theoretical.  unless we reinvested all earnings, 
    massive deterioration in the value of assets already in place 
    would occur.  but those reinvested earnings had no prospect of 
    earning anything close to a market return on capital.) we have 
    also owned small fractions of businesses with extraordinary 
    reinvestment possibilities whose retained earnings had an 
    economic value to us far in excess of 100 cents on the dollar.
    
         _the value to berkshire hathaway of retained earnings is not 
    determined by whether we own 100%, 50%, 20% or 1% of the 
    businesses in which they reside.  rather, the value of those 
    retained earnings is determined by the use to which they are put 
    and the subsequent level of earnings produced by that usage._  
    this is true whether we determine the usage, or whether managers 
    we did not hire - but did elect to join - determine that usage. 
    (its the act that counts, not the actors.) and the value is in 
    no way affected by the inclusion or non-inclusion of those 
    retained earnings in our own reported operating earnings.  if a 
    tree grows in a forest partially owned by us, but we dont record 
    the growth in our financial statements, we still own part of the 
    tree.
    
         our view, we warn you, is non-conventional.  but we would 
    rather have earnings for which we did not get accounting credit 
    put to good use in a 10%-owned company by a management we did not 
    personally hire, than have earnings for which we did get credit 
    put into projects of more dubious potential by another management 
    - even if we are that management.
    
         (we cant resist pausing here for a short commercial.  one 
    usage of retained earnings we often greet with special enthusiasm 
    when practiced by companies in which we have an investment 
    interest is repurchase of their own shares.  the reasoning is 
    simple: if a fine business is selling in the market place for far 
    less than intrinsic value, what more certain or more profitable 
    utilization of capital can there be than significant enlargement 
    of the interests of all owners at that bargain price?  the 
    competitive nature of corporate acquisition activity almost 
    guarantees the payment of a full - frequently more than full 
    price when a company buys the entire ownership of another 
    enterprise.  but the auction nature of security markets often 
    allows finely-run companies the opportunity to purchase portions 
    of their own businesses at a price under 50% of that needed to 
    acquire the same earning power through the negotiated acquisition 
    of another enterprise.)
    
    _long-term corporate results_
    
         as we have noted, we evaluate single-year corporate 
    performance by comparing operating earnings to shareholders 
    equity with securities valued at cost.  our long-term yardstick 
    of performance, however, includes all capital gains or losses, 
    realized or unrealized.  we continue to achieve a long-term 
    return on equity that considerably exceeds the average of our 
    yearly returns.  the major factor causing this pleasant result is 
    a simple one: the retained earnings of those non-controlled 
    holdings we discussed earlier have been translated into gains in 
    market value.
    
         of course, this translation of retained earnings into market 
    price appreciation is highly uneven (it goes in reverse some 
    years), unpredictable as to timing, and unlikely to materialize 
    on a precise dollar-for-dollar basis.  and a silly purchase price 
    for a block of stock in a corporation can negate the effects of a 
    decade of earnings retention by that corporation.  but when 
    purchase prices are sensible, some long-term market recognition 
    of the accumulation of retained earnings almost certainly will 
    occur.  periodically you even will receive some frosting on the 
    cake, with market appreciation far exceeding post-purchase 
    retained earnings.
    
         in the sixteen years since present management assumed 
    responsibility for berkshire, book value per share with 
    insurance-held equities valued at market has increased from 
    $19.46 to $400.80, or 20.5% compounded annually. (youve done 
    better: the value of the mineral content in the human body 
    compounded at 22% annually during the past decade.) it is 
    encouraging, moreover, to realize that our record was achieved 
    despite many mistakes.  the list is too painful and lengthy to 
    detail here.  but it clearly shows that a reasonably competitive 
    corporate batting average can be achieved in spite of a lot of 
    managerial strikeouts.
    
         our insurance companies will continue to make large 
    investments in well-run, favorably-situated, non-controlled 
    companies that very often will pay out in dividends only small 
    proportions of their earnings.  following this policy, we would 
    expect our long-term returns to continue to exceed the returns 
    derived annually from reported operating earnings.  our 
    confidence in this belief can easily be quantified: if we were to 
    sell the equities that we hold and replace them with long-term 
    tax-free bonds, our reported operating earnings would rise 
    immediately by over $30 million annually.  such a shift tempts us 
    not at all.  
    
         so much for the good news.
    
    _results for owners_
    
         unfortunately, earnings reported in corporate financial 
    statements are no longer the dominant variable that determines 
    whether there are any real earnings for you, the owner.  for only 
    gains in purchasing power represent real earnings on investment.  
    if you (a) forego ten hamburgers to purchase an investment; (b) 
    receive dividends which, after tax, buy two hamburgers; and (c) 
    receive, upon sale of your holdings, after-tax proceeds that will 
    buy eight hamburgers, then (d) you have had no real income from 
    your investment, no matter how much it appreciated in dollars.  
    you may feel richer, but you wont eat richer.
    
         high rates of inflation create a tax on capital that makes 
    much corporate investment unwise - at least if measured by the 
    criterion of a positive real investment return to owners.  this 
    hurdle rate the return on equity that must be achieved by a 
    corporation in order to produce any real return for its 
    individual owners - has increased dramatically in recent years.  
    the average tax-paying investor is now running up a down 
    escalator whose pace has accelerated to the point where his 
    upward progress is nil.
    
         for example, in a world of 12% inflation a business earning 
    20% on equity (which very few manage consistently to do) and 
    distributing it all to individuals in the 50% bracket is chewing 
    up their real capital, not enhancing it. (half of the 20% will go 
    for income tax; the remaining 10% leaves the owners of the 
    business with only 98% of the purchasing power they possessed at 
    the start of the year - even though they have not spent a penny 
    of their earnings).  the investors in this bracket would 
    actually be better off with a combination of stable prices and 
    corporate earnings on equity capital of only a few per cent.
    
         explicit income taxes alone, unaccompanied by any implicit 
    inflation tax, never can turn a positive corporate return into a 
    negative owner return. (even if there were 90% personal income 
    tax rates on both dividends and capital gains, some real income 
    would be left for the owner at a zero inflation rate.) but the 
    inflation tax is not limited by reported income.  inflation rates 
    not far from those recently experienced can turn the level of 
    positive returns achieved by a majority of corporations into 
    negative returns for all owners, including those not required to 
    pay explicit taxes. (for example, if inflation reached 16%, 
    owners of the 60% plus of corporate america earning less than 
    this rate of return would be realizing a negative real return - 
    even if income taxes on dividends and capital gains were 
    eliminated.)
    
         of course, the two forms of taxation co-exist and interact 
    since explicit taxes are levied on nominal, not real, income.  
    thus you pay income taxes on what would be deficits if returns to 
    stockholders were measured in constant dollars.
    
         at present inflation rates, we believe individual owners in 
    medium or high tax brackets (as distinguished from tax-free 
    entities such as pension funds, eleemosynary institutions, etc.) 
    should expect no real long-term return from the average american 
    corporation, even though these individuals reinvest the entire 
    after-tax proceeds from all dividends they receive.  the average 
    return on equity of corporations is fully offset by the 
    combination of the implicit tax on capital levied by inflation 
    and the explicit taxes levied both on dividends and gains in 
    value produced by retained earnings.
    
         as we said last year, berkshire has no corporate solution to 
    the problem. (well say it again next year, too.) inflation does 
    not improve our return on equity.
    
         indexing is the insulation that all seek against inflation.  
    but the great bulk (although there are important exceptions) of 
    corporate capital is not even partially indexed.  of course, 
    earnings and dividends per share usually will rise if significant 
    earnings are saved by a corporation; i.e., reinvested instead 
    of paid as dividends.  but that would be true without inflation.  
    a thrifty wage earner, likewise, could achieve regular annual 
    increases in his total income without ever getting a pay increase 
    - _if_ he were willing to take only half of his paycheck in cash 
    (his wage dividend) and consistently add the other half (his 
    retained earnings) to a savings account.  neither this high-
    saving wage earner nor the stockholder in a high-saving 
    corporation whose annual dividend rate increases while its rate 
    of return on equity remains flat is truly indexed.
    
         for capital to be truly indexed, return on equity must rise, 
    i.e., business earnings consistently must increase in proportion 
    to the increase in the price level _without any need for the 
    business to add to capital - including working capital - 
    employed._  (increased earnings produced by increased investment 
    dont count.) only a few businesses come close to exhibiting this 
    ability.  and berkshire hathaway isnt one of them.
    
         we, of course, have a corporate policy of reinvesting 
    earnings for growth, diversity and strength, which has the 
    incidental effect of minimizing the current imposition of 
    explicit taxes on our owners.  however, on a day-by-day basis, 
    you will be subjected to the implicit inflation tax, and when you 
    wish to transfer your investment in berkshire into another form 
    of investment, or into consumption, you also will face explicit 
    taxes.
    
    _sources of earnings_
    
         the table below shows the sources of berkshires reported 
    earnings.  berkshire owns about 60% of blue chip stamps, which in 
    turn owns 80% of wesco financial corporation.  the table shows 
    aggregate earnings of the various business entities, as well as 
    berkshires share of those earnings.  all of the significant 
    capital gains and losses attributable to any of the business 
    entities are aggregated in the realized securities gains figure 
    at the bottom of the table, and are not included in operating 
    earnings.  our calculation of operating earnings also excludes 
    the gain from sale of mutuals branch offices.  in this respect 
    it differs from the presentation in our audited financial 
    statements that includes this item in the calculation of 
    earnings before realized investment gain.
    
    
    _
                                                                             net earnings
                                       earnings before income taxes            after tax
                                  --------------------------------------  ------------------
                                        total          berkshire share     berkshire share
                                  ------------------  ------------------  ------------------
    (in thousands of dollars)       1980      1979      1980      1979      1980      1979_
                                  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
    total earnings - all entities $ 85,945  $ 68,632  $ 70,146  $ 56,427  $ 53,122  $ 42,817
                                  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========
    earnings from operations:
      insurance group:
        underwriting ............ $  6,738  $  3,742  $  6,737  $  3,741  $  3,637  $  2,214
        net investment income ...   30,939    24,224    30,927    24,216    25,607    20,106
      berkshire-waumbec textiles      (508)    1,723      (508)    1,723       202       848
      associated retail stores ..    2,440     2,775     2,440     2,775     1,169     1,280
      sees candies .............   15,031    12,785     8,958     7,598     4,212     3,448
      buffalo evening news ......   (2,805)   (4,617)   (1,672)   (2,744)     (816)   (1,333)
      blue chip stamps - parent      7,699     2,397     4,588     1,425     3,060     1,624
      illinois national bank ....    5,324     5,747     5,200     5,614     4,731     5,027
      wesco financial - parent ..    2,916     2,413     1,392     1,098     1,044       937
      mutual savings and loan ...    5,814    10,447     2,775     4,751     1,974     3,261
      precision steel ...........    2,833     3,254     1,352     1,480       656       723
      interest on debt ..........  (12,230)   (8,248)   (9,390)   (5,860)   (4,809)   (2,900)
      other .....................    2,170     1,342     1,590       996     1,255       753
                                  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
        total earnings from
           operations ........... $ 66,361  $ 57,984  $ 54,389  $ 46,813  $ 41,922  $ 35,988
      mutual savings and loan -
         sale of branches .......    5,873      --       2,803      --       1,293      --
    realized securities gain ....   13,711    10,648    12,954     9,614     9,907     6,829
                                  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
    total earnings - all entities $ 85,945  $ 68,632  $ 70,146  $ 56,427  $ 53,122  $ 42,817
                                  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========
    
         blue chip stamps and wesco are public companies with 
    reporting requirements of their own.  on pages 40 to 53 of this 
    report we have reproduced the narrative reports of the principal 
    executives of both companies, in which they describe 1980 
    operations.  we recommend a careful reading, and suggest that you 
    particularly note the superb job done by louie vincenti and 
    charlie munger in repositioning mutual savings and loan.  a copy 
    of the full annual report of either company will be mailed to any 
    berkshire shareholder upon request to mr. robert h. bird for blue 
    chip stamps, 5801 south eastern avenue, los angeles, california 
    90040, or to mrs. bette deckard for wesco financial corporation, 
    315 east colorado boulevard, pasadena, california 91109.
    
         as indicated earlier, undistributed earnings in companies we 
    do not control are now fully as important as the reported 
    operating earnings detailed in the preceding table.  the 
    distributed portion, of course, finds its way into the table 
    primarily through the net investment income section of insurance 
    group earnings.
    
         we show below berkshires proportional holdings in those 
    non-controlled businesses for which only distributed earnings 
    (dividends) are included in our own earnings.
    _
    no. of shares                                            cost       market
    -------------                                         ----------  ----------
                                                              (000s omitted)_
      434,550 (a)  affiliated publications, inc. ......... $  2,821    $ 12,222
      464,317 (a)  aluminum company of america ...........   25,577      27,685
      475,217 (b)  cleveland-cliffs iron company .........   12,942      15,894
    1,983,812 (b)  general foods, inc. ...................   62,507      59,889
    7,200,000 (a)  geico corporation .....................   47,138     105,300
    2,015,000 (a)  handy & harman ........................   21,825      58,435
      711,180 (a)  interpublic group of companies, inc. ..    4,531      22,135
    1,211,834 (a)  kaiser aluminum & chemical corp. ......   20,629      27,569
      282,500 (a)  media general .........................    4,545       8,334
      247,039 (b)  national detroit corporation ..........    5,930       6,299
      881,500 (a)  national student marketing ............    5,128       5,895
      391,400 (a)  ogilvy & mather intl. inc. ...........    3,709       9,981
      370,088 (b)  pinkertons, inc. .....................   12,144      16,489
      245,700 (b)  r. j. reynolds industries .............    8,702      11,228
    1,250,525 (b)  safeco corporation ....................   32,062      45,177
      151,104 (b)  the times mirror company ..............    4,447       6,271
    1,868,600 (a)  the washington post company ...........   10,628      42,277
      667,124 (b)  e w woolworth company .................   13,583      16,511
                                                          ----------  ----------
                                                           $298,848    $497,591
                   all other common stockholdings ........   26,313      32,096
                                                          ----------  ----------
                   total common stocks ................... $325,161    $529,687
                                                          ==========  ==========
    
    (a) all owned by berkshire or its insurance subsidiaries.
    (b) blue chip and/or wesco own shares of these companies.  all 
        numbers represent berkshires net interest in the larger 
        gross holdings of the group.
    
         from this table, you can see that our sources of underlying 
    earning power are distributed far differently among industries 
    than would superficially seem the case.  for example, our 
    insurance subsidiaries own approximately 3% of kaiser aluminum, 
    and 1 1/4% of alcoa.  our share of the 1980 earnings of those 
    companies amounts to about $13 million. (if translated dollar for 
    dollar into a combination of eventual market value gain and 
    dividends, this figure would have to be reduced by a significant, 
    but not precisely determinable, amount of tax; perhaps 25% would 
    be a fair assumption.) thus, we have a much larger economic 
    interest in the aluminum business than in practically any of the 
    operating businesses we control and on which we report in more 
    detail.  if we maintain our holdings, our long-term performance 
    will be more affected by the future economics of the aluminum 
    industry than it will by direct operating decisions we make 
    concerning most companies over which we exercise managerial 
    control.
    
    _geico corp._
    
         our largest non-controlled holding is 7.2 million shares of 
    geico corp., equal to about a 33% equity interest.  normally, an 
    interest of this magnitude (over 20%) would qualify as an 
    investee holding and would require us to reflect a 
    proportionate share of geicos earnings in our own.  however, we 
    purchased our geico stock pursuant to special orders of the 
    district of columbia and new york insurance departments, which 
    required that the right to vote the stock be placed with an 
    independent party.  absent the vote, our 33% interest does not 
    qualify for investee treatment. (pinkertons is a similar 
    situation.) 
    
         of course, whether or not the undistributed earnings of 
    geico are picked up annually in our operating earnings figure has 
    nothing to do with their economic value to us, or to you as 
    owners of berkshire.  the value of these retained earnings will 
    be determined by the skill with which they are put to use by 
    geico management.
    
         on this score, we simply couldnt feel better.  geico 
    represents the best of all investment worlds - the coupling of a 
    very important and very hard to duplicate business advantage with 
    an extraordinary management whose skills in operations are 
    matched by skills in capital allocation.
    
         as you can see, our holdings cost us $47 million, with about 
    half of this amount invested in 1976 and most of the remainder 
    invested in 1980.  at the present dividend rate, our reported 
    earnings from geico amount to a little over $3 million annually.  
    but we estimate our share of its earning power is on the order of 
    $20 million annually.  thus, undistributed earnings applicable to 
    this holding alone may amount to 40% of total reported operating 
    earnings of berkshire.
    
         we should emphasize that we feel as comfortable with geico 
    management retaining an estimated $17 million of earnings 
    applicable to our ownership as we would if that sum were in our 
    own hands.  in just the last two years geico, through repurchases 
    of its own stock, has reduced the share equivalents it has 
    outstanding from 34.2 million to 21.6 million, dramatically 
    enhancing the interests of shareholders in a business that simply 
    cant be replicated.  the owners could not have been better 
    served.
    
         we have written in past reports about the disappointments 
    that usually result from purchase and operation of turnaround 
    businesses.  literally hundreds of turnaround possibilities in 
    dozens of industries have been described to us over the years 
    and, either as participants or as observers, we have tracked 
    performance against expectations.  our conclusion is that, with 
    few exceptions, when a management with a reputation for 
    brilliance tackles a business with a reputation for poor 
    fundamental economics, it is the reputation of the business that 
    remains intact.
    
         geico may appear to be an exception, having been turned 
    around from the very edge of bankruptcy in 1976.  it certainly is 
    true that managerial brilliance was needed for its resuscitation, 
    and that jack byrne, upon arrival in that year, supplied that 
    ingredient in abundance.
    
         but it also is true that the fundamental business advantage 
    that geico had enjoyed - an advantage that previously had 
    produced staggering success - was still intact within the 
    company, although submerged in a sea of financial and operating 
    troubles.
    
         geico was designed to be the low-cost operation in an 
    enormous marketplace (auto insurance) populated largely by 
    companies whose marketing structures restricted adaptation.  run 
    as designed, it could offer unusual value to its customers while 
    earning unusual returns for itself.  for decades it had been run 
    in just this manner.  its troubles in the mid-70s were not 
    produced by any diminution or disappearance of this essential 
    economic advantage.
    
         geicos problems at that time put it in a position analogous 
    to that of american express in 1964 following the salad oil 
    scandal.  both were one-of-a-kind companies, temporarily reeling 
    from the effects of a fiscal blow that did not destroy their 
    exceptional underlying economics.  the geico and american express 
    situations, extraordinary business franchises with a localized 
    excisable cancer (needing, to be sure, a skilled surgeon), should 
    be distinguished from the true turnaround situation in which 
    the managers expect - and need - to pull off a corporate 
    pygmalion.
    
         whatever the appellation, we are delighted with our geico 
    holding which, as noted, cost us $47 million.  to buy a similar 
    $20 million of earning power in a business with first-class 
    economic characteristics and bright prospects would cost a 
    minimum of $200 million (much more in some industries) if it had 
    to be accomplished through negotiated purchase of an entire 
    company.  a 100% interest of that kind gives the owner the 
    options of leveraging the purchase, changing managements, 
    directing cash flow, and selling the business.  it may also 
    provide some excitement around corporate headquarters (less 
    frequently mentioned).
    
         we find it perfectly satisfying that the nature of our 
    insurance business dictates we buy many minority portions of 
    already well-run businesses (at prices far below our share of the 
    total value of the entire business) that do not need management 
    change, re-direction of cash flow, or sale.  there arent many 
    jack byrnes in the managerial world, or geicos in the business 
    world.  what could be better than buying into a partnership with 
    both of them?
    
    _insurance industry conditions_
    
         the insurance industrys underwriting picture continues to 
    unfold about as we anticipated, with the combined ratio (see 
    definition on page 37) rising from 100.6 in 1979 to an estimated 
    103.5 in 1980.  it is virtually certain that this trend will 
    continue and that industry underwriting losses will mount, 
    significantly and progressively, in 1981 and 1982.  to understand 
    why, we recommend that you read the excellent analysis of 
    property-casualty competitive dynamics done by barbara stewart of 
    chubb corp. in an october 1980 paper. (chubbs annual report 
    consistently presents the most insightful, candid and well-
    written discussion of industry conditions; you should get on the 
    companys mailing list.) mrs. stewarts analysis may not be 
    cheerful, but we think it is very likely to be accurate.
    
         and, unfortunately, a largely unreported but particularly 
    pernicious problem may well prolong and intensify the coming 
    industry agony.  it is not only likely to keep many insurers 
    scrambling for business when underwriting losses hit record 
    levels - it is likely to cause them at such a time to redouble 
    their efforts.
    
         this problem arises from the decline in bond prices and the 
    insurance accounting convention that allows companies to carry 
    bonds at amortized cost, regardless of market value.  many 
    insurers own long-term bonds that, at amortized cost, amount to 
    two to three times net worth.  if the level is three times, of 
    course, a one-third shrink from cost in bond prices - if it were 
    to be recognized on the books - would wipe out net worth.  and 
    shrink they have.  some of the largest and best known property-
    casualty companies currently find themselves with nominal, or 
    even negative, net worth when bond holdings are valued at market.  
    of course their bonds could rise in price, thereby partially, or 
    conceivably even fully, restoring the integrity of stated net 
    worth.  or they could fall further. (we believe that short-term 
    forecasts of stock or bond prices are useless.  the forecasts may 
    tell you a great deal about the forecaster; they tell you nothing 
    about the future.)
    
         it might strike some as strange that an insurance companys 
    survival is threatened when its stock portfolio falls 
    sufficiently in price to reduce net worth significantly, but that 
    an even greater decline in bond prices produces no reaction at 
    all.  the industry would respond by pointing out that, no matter 
    what the current price, the bonds will be paid in full at 
    maturity, thereby eventually eliminating any interim price 
    decline.  it may take twenty, thirty, or even forty years, this 
    argument says, but, as long as the bonds dont have to be sold, 
    in the end theyll all be worth face value.  of course, if they 
    are sold even if they are replaced with similar bonds offering 
    better relative value - the loss must be booked immediately.  
    and, just as promptly, published net worth must be adjusted 
    downward by the amount of the loss.
    
         under such circumstances, a great many investment options 
    disappear, perhaps for decades.  for example, when large 
    underwriting losses are in prospect, it may make excellent 
    business logic for some insurers to shift from tax-exempt bonds 
    into taxable bonds.  unwillingness to recognize major bond losses 
    may be the sole factor that prevents such a sensible move.
    
         but the full implications flowing from massive unrealized 
    bond losses are far more serious than just the immobilization of 
    investment intellect.  for the source of funds to purchase _and 
    hold_ those bonds is a pool of money derived from policyholders 
    and claimants (with changing faces) - money which, in effect, is 
    temporarily on deposit with the insurer.  as long as this pool 
    retains its size, no bonds must be sold.  if the pool of funds 
    shrinks - which it will if the volume of business declines 
    significantly - assets must be sold to pay off the liabilities.  
    and if those assets consist of bonds with big unrealized losses, 
    such losses will rapidly become realized, decimating net worth in 
    the process.
    
         thus, an insurance company with a bond market value 
    shrinkage approaching stated net worth (of which there are now 
    many) and also faced with inadequate rate levels that are sure to 
    deteriorate further has two options.  one option for management 
    is to tell the underwriters to keep pricing according to the 
    exposure involved - be sure to get a dollar of premium for every 
    dollar of expense cost plus expectable loss cost.
    
         the consequences of this directive are predictable: (a) with 
    most business both price sensitive and renewable annually, many 
    policies presently on the books will be lost to competitors in 
    rather short order; (b) as premium volume shrinks significantly, 
    there will be a lagged but corresponding decrease in liabilities 
    (unearned premiums and claims payable); (c) assets (bonds) must 
    be sold to match the decrease in liabilities; and (d) the 
    formerly unrecognized disappearance of net worth will become 
    partially recognized (depending upon the extent of such sales) in 
    the insurers published financial statements.
    
         variations of this depressing sequence involve a smaller 
    penalty to stated net worth.  the reaction of some companies at 
    (c) would be to sell either stocks that are already carried at 
    market values or recently purchased bonds involving less severe 
    losses.  this ostrich-like behavior - selling the better assets 
    and keeping the biggest losers - while less painful in the short 
    term, is unlikely to be a winner in the long term.
    
         the second option is much simpler: just keep writing 
    business regardless of rate levels and whopping prospective 
    underwriting losses, thereby maintaining the present levels of 
    premiums, assets and liabilities - and then pray for a better 
    day, either for underwriting or for bond prices.  there is much 
    criticism in the trade press of cash flow underwriting; i.e., 
    writing business regardless of prospective underwriting losses in 
    order to obtain funds to invest at current high interest rates.  
    this second option might properly be termed asset maintenance 
    underwriting - the acceptance of terrible business just to keep 
    the assets you now have.
    
         of course you know which option will be selected.  and it 
    also is clear that as long as many large insurers feel compelled 
    to choose that second option, there will be no better day for 
    underwriting.  for if much of the industry feels it must maintain 
    premium volume levels regardless of price adequacy, all insurers 
    will have to come close to meeting those prices.  right behind 
    having financial problems yourself, the next worst plight is to 
    have a large group of competitors with financial problems that 
    they can defer by a sell-at-any-price policy.
    
         we mentioned earlier that companies that were unwilling - 
    for any of a number of reasons, including public reaction, 
    institutional pride, or protection of stated net worth - to sell 
    bonds at price levels forcing recognition of major losses might 
    find themselves frozen in investment posture for a decade or 
    longer.  but, as noted, thats only half of the problem.  
    _companies that have made extensive commitments to long-term bonds 
    may have lost, for a considerable period of time, not only many 
    of their investment options, but many of their underwriting 
    options as well._
    
         our own position in this respect is satisfactory.  we 
    believe our net worth, valuing bonds of all insurers at amortized 
    cost, is the strongest relative to premium volume among all large 
    property-casualty stockholder-owned groups.  when bonds are 
    valued at market, our relative strength becomes far more 
    dramatic. (but lest we get too puffed up, we remind ourselves 
    that our asset and liability maturities still are far more 
    mismatched than we would wish and that we, too, lost important 
    sums in bonds because your chairman was talking when he should 
    have been acting.)
    
         our abundant capital and investment flexibility will enable 
    us to do whatever we think makes the most sense during the 
    prospective extended period of inadequate pricing.  but troubles 
    for the industry mean troubles for us.  our financial strength 
    doesnt remove us from the hostile pricing environment now 
    enveloping the entire property-casualty insurance industry.  it 
    just gives us more staying power and more options.
    
    _insurance operations_
    
         the national indemnity managers, led by phil liesche with 
    the usual able assistance of roland miller and bill lyons, outdid 
    themselves in 1980.  while volume was flat, underwriting margins 
    relative to the industry were at an all-time high.  we expect 
    decreased volume from this operation in 1981.  but its managers 
    will hear no complaints from corporate headquarters, nor will 
    employment or salaries suffer.  we enormously admire the national 
    indemnity underwriting discipline - embedded from origin by the 
    founder, jack ringwalt - and know that this discipline, if 
    suspended, probably could not be fully regained.
    
         john seward at home and auto continues to make good progress 
    in replacing a diminishing number of auto policies with volume 
    from less competitive lines, primarily small-premium general 
    liability.  operations are being slowly expanded, both 
    geographically and by product line, as warranted by underwriting 
    results.
    
         the reinsurance business continues to reflect the excesses 
    and problems of the primary writers.  worse yet, it has the 
    potential for magnifying such excesses.  reinsurance is 
    characterized by extreme ease of entry, large premium payments in 
    advance, and much-delayed loss reports and loss payments.  
    initially, the morning mail brings lots of cash and few claims.  
    this state of affairs can produce a blissful, almost euphoric, 
    feeling akin to that experienced by an innocent upon receipt of 
    his first credit card.
    
         the magnetic lure of such cash-generating characteristics, 
    currently enhanced by the presence of high interest rates, is 
    transforming the reinsurance market into amateur night.  
    without a super catastrophe, industry underwriting will be poor 
    in the next few years.  if we experience such a catastrophe, 
    there could be a bloodbath with some companies not able to live 
    up to contractual commitments.  george young continues to do a 
    first-class job for us in this business.  results, with 
    investment income included, have been reasonably profitable.  we 
    will retain an active reinsurance presence but, for the 
    foreseeable future, we expect no premium growth from this 
    activity.
    
         we continue to have serious problems in the homestate 
    operation.  floyd taylor in kansas has done an outstanding job 
    but our underwriting record elsewhere is considerably below 
    average.  our poorest performer has been insurance company of 
    iowa, at which large losses have been sustained annually since 
    its founding in 1973.  late in the fall we abandoned underwriting 
    in that state, and have merged the company into cornhusker 
    casualty.  there is potential in the homestate concept, but much 
    work needs to be done in order to realize it.
    
         our workers compensation operation suffered a severe loss 
    when frank denardo died last year at 37. frank instinctively 
    thought like an underwriter.  he was a superb technician and a 
    fierce competitor; in short order he had straightened out major 
    problems at the california workers compensation division of 
    national indemnity.  dan grossman, who originally brought frank 
    to us, stepped in immediately after franks death to continue 
    that operation, which now utilizes redwood fire and casualty, 
    another berkshire subsidiary, as the insuring vehicle.
    
         our major workers compensation operation, cypress insurance 
    company, run by milt thornton, continues its outstanding record.  
    year after year milt, like phil liesche, runs an underwriting 
    operation that far outpaces his competition.  in the industry he 
    is admired and copied, but not matched.
    
         overall, we look for a significant decline in insurance 
    volume in 1981 along with a poorer underwriting result.  we 
    expect underwriting experience somewhat superior to that of the 
    industry but, of course, so does most of the industry.  there 
    will be some disappointments.
    
    _textile and retail operations_
    
         during the past year we have cut back the scope of our 
    textile business.  operations at waumbec mills have been 
    terminated, reluctantly but necessarily.  some equipment was 
    transferred to new bedford but most has been sold, or will be, 
    along with real estate.  your chairman made a costly mistake in 
    not facing the realities of this situation sooner.
    
         at new bedford we have reduced the number of looms operated 
    by about one-third, abandoning some high-volume lines in which 
    product differentiation was insignificant.  even assuming 
    everything went right - which it seldom did - these lines could 
    not generate adequate returns related to investment.  and, over a 
    full industry cycle, losses were the most likely result.
    
         our remaining textile operation, still sizable, has been 
    divided into a manufacturing and a sales division, each free to 
    do business independent of the other.  thus, distribution 
    strengths and mill capabilities will not be wedded to each other.  
    we have more than doubled capacity in our most profitable textile 
    segment through a recent purchase of used 130-inch saurer looms.  
    current conditions indicate another tough year in textiles, but 
    with substantially less capital employed in the operation.
    
         ben rosners record at associated retail stores continues to 
    amaze us.  in a poor retailing year, associateds earnings 
    continued excellent - and those earnings all were translated into 
    cash.  on march 7, 1981 associated will celebrate its 50th 
    birthday.  ben has run the business (along with leo simon, his 
    partner from 1931 to 1966) in each of those fifty years.
    
    _disposition of illinois national bank and trust of rockford_
    
         on december 31, 1980 we completed the exchange of 41,086 
    shares of rockford bancorp inc. (which owns 97.7% of illinois 
    national bank) for a like number of shares of berkshire hathaway 
    inc.
    
         our method of exchange allowed all berkshire shareholders to 
    maintain their proportional interest in the bank (except for me; 
    i was permitted 80% of my proportional share).  they were thus 
    guaranteed an ownership position identical to that they would 
    have attained had we followed a more conventional spinoff 
    approach.  twenty-four shareholders (of our approximate 1300) 
    chose this proportional exchange option.
    
         we also allowed overexchanges, and thirty-nine additional 
    shareholders accepted this option, thereby increasing their 
    ownership in the bank and decreasing their proportional ownership 
    in berkshire.  all got the full amount of bancorp stock they 
    requested, since the total shares desired by these thirty-nine 
    holders was just slightly less than the number left available by 
    the remaining 1200-plus holders of berkshire who elected not to 
    part with any berkshire shares at all.  as the exchanger of last 
    resort, i took the small balance (3% of bancorps stock).  these 
    shares, added to shares i received from my basic exchange 
    allotment (80% of normal), gave me a slightly reduced 
    proportional interest in the bank and a slightly enlarged 
    proportional interest in berkshire.
    
         management of the bank is pleased with the outcome.  bancorp 
    will operate as an inexpensive and uncomplicated holding company 
    owned by 65 shareholders.  and all of those shareholders will 
    have become bancorp owners through a conscious affirmative 
    decision.
    
    _financing_
    
         in august we sold $60 million of 12 3/4% notes due august 1, 
    2005, with a sinking fund to begin in 1991.
    
         the managing underwriters, donaldson, lufkin & jenrette 
    securities corporation, represented by bill fisher, and chiles, 
    heider & company, inc., represented by charlie heider, did an 
    absolutely first-class job from start to finish of the financing.
    
         unlike most businesses, berkshire did not finance because of 
    any specific immediate needs.  rather, we borrowed because we 
    think that, over a period far shorter than the life of the loan, 
    we will have many opportunities to put the money to good use.  
    the most attractive opportunities may present themselves at a 
    time when credit is extremely expensive - or even unavailable.  
    at such a time we want to have plenty of financial firepower.
    
         our acquisition preferences run toward businesses that 
    generate cash, not those that consume it.  as inflation 
    intensifies, more and more companies find that they must spend 
    all funds they generate internally just to maintain their 
    existing physical volume of business.  there is a certain mirage-
    like quality to such operations.  however attractive the earnings 
    numbers, we remain leery of businesses that never seem able to 
    convert such pretty numbers into no-strings-attached cash.
    
         businesses meeting our standards are not easy to find. (each 
    year we read of hundreds of corporate acquisitions; only a 
    handful would have been of interest to us.) and logical expansion 
    of our present operations is not easy to implement.  but well 
    continue to utilize both avenues in our attempts to further 
    berkshires growth.
    
         under all circumstances we plan to operate with plenty of 
    liquidity, with debt that is moderate in size and properly 
    structured, and with an abundance of capital strength.  our 
    return on equity is penalized somewhat by this conservative 
    approach, but it is the only one with which we feel comfortable.
    
    
                   *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *                
    
    
         gene abegg, founder of our long-owned bank in rockford, died 
    on july 2, 1980 at the age of 82.  as a friend, banker and 
    citizen, he was unsurpassed.
    
         you learn a great deal about a person when you purchase a 
    business from him and he then stays on to run it as an employee 
    rather than as an owner.  before the purchase the seller knows 
    the business intimately, whereas you start from scratch.  the 
    seller has dozens of opportunities to mislead the buyer - through 
    omissions, ambiguities, and misdirection.  after the check has 
    changed hands, subtle (and not so subtle) changes of attitude can 
    occur and implicit understandings can evaporate.  as in the 
    courtship-marriage sequence, disappointments are not infrequent.
    
         from the time we first met, gene shot straight 100% of the 
    time - the only behavior pattern he had within him.  at the 
    outset of negotiations, he laid all negative factors face up on 
    the table; on the other hand, for years after the transaction was 
    completed he would tell me periodically of some previously 
    undiscussed items of value that had come with our purchase.
    
         though he was already 71 years of age when he sold us the 
    bank, gene subsequently worked harder for us than he had for 
    himself.  he never delayed reporting a problem for a minute, but 
    problems were few with gene.  what else would you expect from a 
    man who, at the time of the bank holiday in 1933, had enough cash 
    on the premises to pay all depositors in full?  gene never forgot 
    he was handling other peoples money.  though this fiduciary 
    attitude was always dominant, his superb managerial skills 
    enabled the bank to regularly achieve the top position nationally 
    in profitability.
    
         gene was in charge of the illinois national for close to 
    fifty years - almost one-quarter of the lifetime of our country.  
    george mead, a wealthy industrialist, brought him in from chicago 
    to open a new bank after a number of other banks in rockford had 
    failed.  mr. mead put up the money and gene ran the show.  his 
    talent for leadership soon put its stamp on virtually every major 
    civic activity in rockford.
    
         dozens of rockford citizens have told me over the years of 
    help gene extended to them.  in some cases this help was 
    financial; in all cases it involved much wisdom, empathy and 
    friendship.  he always offered the same to me.  because of our 
    respective ages and positions i was sometimes the junior partner, 
    sometimes the senior.  whichever the relationship, it always was 
    a special one, and i miss it.
    
    
                                              warren e. buffett
    february 27, 1981                         chairman of the board
    
    

