**berkshire hathaway inc.**
    
    
    
                                                   february 26, 1982
    
    
    
    _to the shareholders of berkshire hathaway inc.:_
    
         operating earnings of $39.7 million in 1981 amounted to 
    15.2% of beginning equity capital (valuing securities at cost) 
    compared to 17.8% in 1980.  our new plan that allows stockholders 
    to designate corporate charitable contributions (detailed later) 
    reduced earnings by about $900,000 in 1981.  this program, which 
    we expect to continue subject to annual evaluation of our 
    corporate tax position, had not been initiated in 1980.
    
    
    _non-controlled ownership earnings_
    
         in the 1980 annual report we discussed extensively the 
    concept of non-controlled ownership earnings, i.e., berkshires 
    share of the undistributed earnings of companies we dont control 
    or significantly influence but in which we, nevertheless, have 
    important investments. (we will be glad to make available to new 
    or prospective shareholders copies of that discussion or others 
    from earlier reports to which we refer in this report.) no 
    portion of those undistributed earnings is included in the 
    operating earnings of berkshire.
    
         however, our belief is that, in aggregate, those 
    undistributed and, therefore, unrecorded earnings will be 
    translated into tangible value for berkshire shareholders just as 
    surely as if subsidiaries we control had earned, retained - and 
    reported - similar earnings.
    
         we know that this translation of non-controlled ownership 
    earnings into corresponding realized and unrealized capital gains 
    for berkshire will be extremely irregular as to time of 
    occurrence.  while market values track business values quite well 
    over long periods, in any given year the relationship can gyrate 
    capriciously.  market recognition of retained earnings also will 
    be unevenly realized among companies.  it will be disappointingly 
    low or negative in cases where earnings are employed non-
    productively, and far greater than dollar-for-dollar of retained 
    earnings in cases of companies that achieve high returns with 
    their augmented capital.  overall, if a group of non-controlled 
    companies is selected with reasonable skill, the group result 
    should be quite satisfactory.
    
         in aggregate, our non-controlled business interests have 
    more favorable underlying economic characteristics than our 
    controlled businesses.  thats understandable; the area of choice 
    has been far wider.  small portions of exceptionally good 
    businesses are usually available in the securities markets at 
    reasonable prices.  but such businesses are available for 
    purchase in their entirety only rarely, and then almost always at 
    high prices.
    
    
    _general acquisition behavior_
    
         as our history indicates, we are comfortable both with total 
    ownership of businesses and with marketable securities 
    representing small portions of businesses.  we continually look 
    for ways to employ large sums in each area. (but we try to avoid 
    small commitments - if somethings not worth doing at all, its 
    not worth doing well.) indeed, the liquidity requirements of our 
    insurance and trading stamp businesses mandate major investments 
    in marketable securities.
    
         our acquisition decisions will be aimed at maximizing real 
    economic benefits, not at maximizing either managerial domain or 
    reported numbers for accounting purposes. (in the long run, 
    managements stressing accounting appearance over economic 
    substance usually achieve little of either.)
    
         regardless of the impact upon immediately reportable 
    earnings, we would rather buy 10% of wonderful business t at x 
    per share than 100% of t at 2x per share.  most corporate 
    managers prefer just the reverse, and have no shortage of stated 
    rationales for their behavior.
    
         however, we suspect three motivations - usually unspoken - 
    to be, singly or in combination, the important ones in most high-
    premium takeovers:
    
         (1) leaders, business or otherwise, seldom are deficient in 
             animal spirits and often relish increased activity and 
             challenge.  at berkshire, the corporate pulse never 
             beats faster than when an acquisition is in prospect.
    
         (2) most organizations, business or otherwise, measure 
             themselves, are measured by others, and compensate their 
             managers far more by the yardstick of size than by any 
             other yardstick. (ask a _fortune 500_ manager where his 
             corporation stands on that famous list and, invariably, 
             the number responded will be from the list ranked by 
             size of sales; he may well not even know where his 
             corporation places on the list _fortune_ just as 
             faithfully compiles ranking the same 500 corporations by 
             profitability.)
    
         (3) many managements apparently were overexposed in 
             impressionable childhood years to the story in which the 
             imprisoned handsome prince is released from a toads 
             body by a kiss from a beautiful princess.  consequently, 
             they are certain their managerial kiss will do wonders 
             for the profitability of company t(arget).
    
                such optimism is essential.  absent that rosy view, 
             why else should the shareholders of company a(cquisitor) 
             want to own an interest in t at the 2x takeover cost 
             rather than at the x market price they would pay if they 
             made direct purchases on their own?
    
                in other words, investors can always buy toads at the 
             going price for toads.  if investors instead bankroll 
             princesses who wish to pay double for the right to kiss 
             the toad, those kisses had better pack some real 
             dynamite.  weve observed many kisses but very few 
             miracles.  nevertheless, many managerial princesses 
             remain serenely confident about the future potency of 
             their kisses - even after their corporate backyards are 
             knee-deep in unresponsive toads.
    
         in fairness, we should acknowledge that some acquisition 
    records have been dazzling.  two major categories stand out.
    
         the first involves companies that, through design or 
    accident, have purchased only businesses that are particularly 
    well adapted to an inflationary environment.  such favored 
    business must have two characteristics: (1) an ability to 
    increase prices rather easily (even when product demand is flat 
    and capacity is not fully utilized) without fear of significant 
    loss of either market share or unit volume, and (2) an ability to 
    accommodate large dollar volume increases in business (often 
    produced more by inflation than by real growth) with only minor 
    additional investment of capital.  managers of ordinary ability, 
    focusing solely on acquisition possibilities meeting these tests, 
    have achieved excellent results in recent decades.  however, very 
    few enterprises possess both characteristics, and competition to 
    buy those that do has now become fierce to the point of being 
    self-defeating.
    
         the second category involves the managerial superstars - men 
    who can recognize that rare prince who is disguised as a toad, 
    and who have managerial abilities that enable them to peel away 
    the disguise.  we salute such managers as ben heineman at 
    northwest industries, henry singleton at teledyne, erwin zaban at 
    national service industries, and especially tom murphy at capital 
    cities communications (a real managerial twofer, whose 
    acquisition efforts have been properly focused in category 1 and 
    whose operating talents also make him a leader of category 2).  
    from both direct and vicarious experience, we recognize the 
    difficulty and rarity of these executives achievements. (so do 
    they; these champs have made very few deals in recent years, and 
    often have found repurchase of their own shares to be the most 
    sensible employment of corporate capital.)
    
         your chairman, unfortunately, does not qualify for category 
    2.  and, despite a reasonably good understanding of the economic 
    factors compelling concentration in category 1, our actual 
    acquisition activity in that category has been sporadic and 
    inadequate.  our preaching was better than our performance. (we 
    neglected the noah principle: predicting rain doesnt count, 
    building arks does.)
    
         we have tried occasionally to buy toads at bargain prices 
    with results that have been chronicled in past reports.  clearly 
    our kisses fell flat.  we have done well with a couple of princes 
    - but they were princes when purchased.  at least our kisses 
    didnt turn them into toads.  and, finally, we have occasionally 
    been quite successful in purchasing fractional interests in 
    easily-identifiable princes at toad-like prices.
    
    
    _berkshire acquisition objectives_
    
         we will continue to seek the acquisition of businesses in 
    their entirety at prices that will make sense, even should the 
    future of the acquired enterprise develop much along the lines of 
    its past.  we may very well pay a fairly fancy price for a 
    category 1 business if we are reasonably confident of what we are 
    getting.  but we will not normally pay a lot in any purchase for 
    what we are supposed to bring to the party - for we find that we 
    ordinarily dont bring a lot.
    
         during 1981 we came quite close to a major purchase 
    involving both a business and a manager we liked very much.  
    however, the price finally demanded, considering alternative uses 
    for the funds involved, would have left our owners worse off than 
    before the purchase.  the empire would have been larger, but the 
    citizenry would have been poorer.
    
         although we had no success in 1981, from time to time in the 
    future we will be able to purchase 100% of businesses meeting our 
    standards.  additionally, we expect an occasional offering of a 
    major non-voting partnership as discussed under the pinkertons 
    heading on page 47 of this report.  we welcome suggestions 
    regarding such companies where we, as a substantial junior 
    partner, can achieve good economic results while furthering the 
    long-term objectives of present owners and managers.
    
         currently, we find values most easily obtained through the 
    open-market purchase of fractional positions in companies with 
    excellent business franchises and competent, honest managements.  
    we never expect to run these companies, but we do expect to 
    profit from them.
    
         we expect that undistributed earnings from such companies 
    will produce full value (subject to tax when realized) for 
    berkshire and its shareholders.  if they dont, we have made 
    mistakes as to either: (1) the management we have elected to 
    join; (2) the future economics of the business; or (3) the price 
    we have paid.
    
         we have made plenty of such mistakes - both in the purchase 
    of non-controlling and controlling interests in businesses.  
    category (2) miscalculations are the most common.  of course, it 
    is necessary to dig deep into our history to find illustrations 
    of such mistakes - sometimes as deep as two or three months back.  
    for example, last year your chairman volunteered his expert 
    opinion on the rosy future of the aluminum business.  several 
    minor adjustments to that opinion - now aggregating approximately 
    180 degrees - have since been required.
    
         for personal as well as more objective reasons, however, we 
    generally have been able to correct such mistakes far more 
    quickly in the case of non-controlled businesses (marketable 
    securities) than in the case of controlled subsidiaries.  lack of 
    control, in effect, often has turned out to be an economic plus.
    
         as we mentioned last year, the magnitude of our non-recorded 
    ownership earnings has grown to the point where their total is 
    greater than our reported operating earnings.  we expect this 
    situation will continue.  in just four ownership positions in 
    this category - geico corporation, general foods corporation, r. 
    j. reynolds industries, inc. and the washington post company - 
    our share of undistributed and therefore unrecorded earnings 
    probably will total well over $35 million in 1982.  the 
    accounting rules that entirely ignore these undistributed 
    earnings diminish the utility of our annual return on equity 
    calculation, or any other single year measure of economic 
    performance.
    
    
    _long-term corporate performance_
    
         in measuring long-term economic performance, equities held 
    by our insurance subsidiaries are valued at market subject to a 
    charge reflecting the amount of taxes that would have to be paid 
    if unrealized gains were actually realized.  if we are correct in 
    the premise stressed in the preceding section of this report, our 
    unreported ownership earnings will find their way, irregularly 
    but inevitably, into our net worth.  to date, this has been the 
    case.
    
         an even purer calculation of performance would involve a 
    valuation of bonds and non-insurance held equities at market.  
    however, gaap accounting does not prescribe this procedure, and 
    the added purity would change results only very slightly.  should 
    any valuation difference widen to significant proportions, as it 
    has at most major insurance companies, we will report its effect 
    to you.
    
         on a gaap basis, during the present managements term of 
    seventeen years, book value has increased from $19.46 per share 
    to $526.02 per share, or 21.1% compounded annually.  this rate of 
    return number is highly likely to drift downward in future years.  
    we hope, however, that it can be maintained significantly above 
    the rate of return achieved by the average large american 
    corporation.
    
         over half of the large gain in berkshires net worth during 
    1981 - it totaled $124 million, or about 31% - resulted from the 
    market performance of a single investment, geico corporation.  in 
    aggregate, our market gain from securities during the year 
    considerably outstripped the gain in underlying business values.  
    such market variations will not always be on the pleasant side.
    
         in past reports we have explained how inflation has caused 
    our apparently satisfactory long-term corporate performance to be 
    illusory as a measure of true investment results for our owners.  
    we applaud the efforts of federal reserve chairman volcker and 
    note the currently more moderate increases in various price 
    indices.  nevertheless, our views regarding long-term 
    inflationary trends are as negative as ever.  like virginity, a 
    stable price level seems capable of maintenance, but not of 
    restoration.
    
         despite the overriding importance of inflation in the 
    investment equation, we will not punish you further with another 
    full recital of our views; inflation itself will be punishment 
    enough. (copies of previous discussions are available for 
    masochists.) but, because of the unrelenting destruction of 
    currency values, our corporate efforts will continue to do a much 
    better job of filling your wallet than of filling your stomach.
    
    
    _equity value-added_
    
         an additional factor should further subdue any residual 
    enthusiasm you may retain regarding our long-term rate of return.  
    the economic case justifying equity investment is that, in 
    aggregate, additional earnings above passive investment returns - 
    interest on fixed-income securities - will be derived through the 
    employment of managerial and entrepreneurial skills in 
    conjunction with that equity capital.  furthermore, the case says 
    that since the equity capital position is associated with greater 
    risk than passive forms of investment, it is entitled to higher 
    returns.  a value-added bonus from equity capital seems natural 
    and certain.
    
         but is it?  several decades back, a return on equity of as 
    little as 10% enabled a corporation to be classified as a good 
    business - i.e., one in which a dollar reinvested in the business 
    logically could be expected to be valued by the market at more 
    than one hundred cents.  for, with long-term taxable bonds 
    yielding 5% and long-term tax-exempt bonds 3%, a business 
    operation that could utilize equity capital at 10% clearly was 
    worth some premium to investors over the equity capital employed.  
    that was true even though a combination of taxes on dividends and 
    on capital gains would reduce the 10% earned by the corporation 
    to perhaps 6%-8% in the hands of the individual investor.
    
         investment markets recognized this truth.  during that 
    earlier period, american business earned an average of 11% or so 
    on equity capital employed and stocks, in aggregate, sold at 
    valuations far above that equity capital (book value), averaging 
    over 150 cents on the dollar.  most businesses were good 
    businesses because they earned far more than their keep (the 
    return on long-term passive money).  the value-added produced by 
    equity investment, in aggregate, was substantial.
    
         that day is gone.  but the lessons learned during its 
    existence are difficult to discard.  while investors and managers 
    must place their feet in the future, their memories and nervous 
    systems often remain plugged into the past.  it is much easier 
    for investors to utilize historic p/e ratios or for managers to 
    utilize historic business valuation yardsticks than it is for 
    either group to rethink their premises daily.  when change is 
    slow, constant rethinking is actually undesirable; it achieves 
    little and slows response time.  but when change is great, 
    yesterdays assumptions can be retained only at great cost.  and 
    the pace of economic change has become breathtaking.
    
         during the past year, long-term taxable bond yields exceeded 
    16% and long-term tax-exempts 14%.  the total return achieved 
    from such tax-exempts, of course, goes directly into the pocket 
    of the individual owner.  meanwhile, american business is 
    producing earnings of only about 14% on equity.  and this 14% 
    will be substantially reduced by taxation before it can be banked 
    by the individual owner.  the extent of such shrinkage depends 
    upon the dividend policy of the corporation and the tax rates 
    applicable to the investor.
    
         thus, _with interest rates on passive investments at late 
    1981 levels,_ a typical american business is no longer worth one 
    hundred cents on the dollar to owners who are individuals. (if 
    the business is owned by pension funds or other tax-exempt 
    investors, the arithmetic, although still unenticing, changes 
    substantially for the better.) assume an investor in a 50% tax 
    bracket; if our typical company pays out all earnings, the income 
    return to the investor will be equivalent to that from a 7% tax-
    exempt bond.  and, if conditions persist - if all earnings are 
    paid out and return on equity stays at 14% - the 7% tax-exempt 
    equivalent to the higher-bracket individual investor is just as 
    frozen as is the coupon on a tax-exempt bond.  such a perpetual 
    7% tax-exempt bond might be worth fifty cents on the dollar as 
    this is written.
    
         if, on the other hand, all earnings of our typical american 
    business are retained and return on equity again remains 
    constant, earnings will grow at 14% per year.  if the p/e ratio 
    remains constant, the price of our typical stock will also grow 
    at 14% per year.  but that 14% is not yet in the pocket of the 
    shareholder.  putting it there will require the payment of a 
    capital gains tax, presently assessed at a maximum rate of 20%.  
    this net return, of course, works out to a poorer rate of return 
    than the currently available passive after-tax rate.
    
         unless passive rates fall, companies achieving 14% per year 
    gains in earnings per share while paying no cash dividend are an 
    economic failure for their individual shareholders.  the returns 
    from passive capital outstrip the returns from active capital.  
    this is an unpleasant fact for both investors and corporate 
    managers and, therefore, one they may wish to ignore.  but facts 
    do not cease to exist, either because they are unpleasant or 
    because they are ignored.
    
         most american businesses pay out a significant portion of 
    their earnings and thus fall between the two examples.  and most 
    american businesses are currently bad businesses economically - 
    producing less for their individual investors after-tax than the 
    tax-exempt passive rate of return on money.  of course, some 
    high-return businesses still remain attractive, even under 
    present conditions.  but american equity capital, in aggregate, 
    produces no value-added for individual investors.
    
         it should be stressed that this depressing situation does 
    not occur because corporations are jumping, economically, less 
    high than previously.  in fact, they are jumping somewhat higher: 
    return on equity has improved a few points in the past decade.  
    but the crossbar of passive return has been elevated much faster.  
    unhappily, most companies can do little but hope that the bar 
    will be lowered significantly; there are few industries in which 
    the prospects seem bright for substantial gains in return on 
    equity.
    
         inflationary experience and expectations will be major (but 
    not the only) factors affecting the height of the crossbar in 
    future years.  if the causes of long-term inflation can be 
    tempered, passive returns are likely to fall and the intrinsic 
    position of american equity capital should significantly improve.  
    many businesses that now must be classified as economically bad 
    would be restored to the good category under such 
    circumstances.
    
         a further, particularly ironic, punishment is inflicted by 
    an inflationary environment upon the owners of the bad 
    business.  to continue operating in its present mode, such a low-
    return business usually must retain much of its earnings - no 
    matter what penalty such a policy produces for shareholders.
    
         reason, of course, would prescribe just the opposite policy.  
    an individual, stuck with a 5% bond with many years to run before 
    maturity, does not take the coupons from that bond and pay one 
    hundred cents on the dollar for more 5% bonds while similar bonds 
    are available at, say, forty cents on the dollar.  instead, he 
    takes those coupons from his low-return bond and - if inclined to 
    reinvest - looks for the highest return with safety currently 
    available.  good money is not thrown after bad.
    
         what makes sense for the bondholder makes sense for the 
    shareholder.  logically, a company with historic _and prospective_ 
    high returns on equity should retain much or all of its earnings 
    so that shareholders can earn premium returns on enhanced 
    capital.  conversely, low returns on corporate equity would 
    suggest a very high dividend payout so that owners could direct 
    capital toward more attractive areas. (the scriptures concur.  in 
    the parable of the talents, the two high-earning servants are 
    rewarded with 100% retention of earnings and encouraged to expand 
    their operations.  however, the non-earning third servant is not 
    only chastised - wicked and slothful - but also is required to 
    redirect all of his capital to the top performer.  _matthew 25: 
    14-30)_
    
         but inflation takes us through the looking glass into the 
    upside-down world of _alice in wonderland._  when prices 
    continuously rise, the bad business must retain every nickel 
    that it can.  not because it is attractive as a repository for 
    equity capital, but precisely because it is so unattractive, the 
    low-return business must follow a high retention policy.  if it 
    wishes to continue operating in the future as it has in the past 
    - and most entities, including businesses, do - it simply has no 
    choice.
    
         for inflation acts as a gigantic corporate tapeworm.  that 
    tapeworm preemptively consumes its requisite daily diet of 
    investment dollars regardless of the health of the host organism.  
    whatever the level of reported profits (even if nil), more 
    dollars for receivables, inventory and fixed assets are 
    continuously required by the business in order to merely match 
    the unit volume of the previous year.  the less prosperous the 
    enterprise, the greater the proportion of available sustenance 
    claimed by the tapeworm.
    
         under present conditions, a business earning 8% or 10% on 
    equity often has no leftovers for expansion, debt reduction or 
    real dividends.  the tapeworm of inflation simply cleans the 
    plate. (the low-return companys inability to pay dividends, 
    understandably, is often disguised.  corporate america 
    increasingly is turning to dividend reinvestment plans, sometimes 
    even embodying a discount arrangement that all but forces 
    shareholders to reinvest.  other companies sell newly issued 
    shares to peter in order to pay dividends to paul.  beware of 
    dividends that can be paid out only if someone promises to 
    replace the capital distributed.)
    
         berkshire continues to retain its earnings for offensive, 
    not defensive or obligatory, reasons.  but in no way are we 
    immune from the pressures that escalating passive returns exert 
    on equity capital.  we continue to clear the crossbar of after-
    tax passive return - but barely.  our historic 21% return - not 
    at all assured for the future - still provides, after the current 
    capital gain tax rate (which we expect to rise considerably in 
    future years), a modest margin over current after-tax rates on 
    passive money.  it would be a bit humiliating to have our 
    corporate value-added turn negative.  but it can happen here as 
    it has elsewhere, either from events outside anyones control or 
    from poor relative adaptation on our part.
    
    
    _sources of reported earnings_
    
         the table below shows the sources of berkshires reported 
    earnings.  berkshire owns about 60% of blue chip stamps which, in 
    turn, owns 80% of wesco financial corporation.  the table 
    displays aggregate operating earnings of the various business 
    entities, as well as berkshires share of those earnings.  all of 
    the significant gains and losses attributable to unusual sales of 
    assets by any of the business entities are aggregated with 
    securities transactions in the line near the bottom of the table 
    and are not included in operating earnings.
    _
                                                                             net earnings
                                       earnings before income taxes            after tax
                                  --------------------------------------  ------------------
                                        total          berkshire share     berkshire share
                                  ------------------  ------------------  ------------------
                                    1981      1980      1981      1980      1981      1980
                                  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
                                                        (000s omitted)_
    operating earnings:
      insurance group:
        underwriting ............ $  1,478  $  6,738  $  1,478  $  6,737   $   798   $ 3,637
        net investment income ...   38,823    30,939    38,823    30,927    32,401    25,607
      berkshire-waumbec textiles    (2,669)     (508)   (2,669)     (508)   (1,493)      202
      associated retail stores ..    1,763     2,440     1,763     2,440       759     1,169
      sees candies .............   21,891    15,475    13,046     9,223     6,289     4,459
      buffalo evening news ......   (1,057)   (2,777)     (630)   (1,655)     (276)     (800)
      blue chip stamps - parent      3,642     7,699     2,171     4,588     2,134     3,060
      wesco financial - parent ..    4,495     2,916     2,145     1,392     1,590     1,044
      mutual savings and loan ...    1,605     5,814       766     2,775     1,536     1,974
      precision steel ...........    3,453     2,833     1,648     1,352       841       656
      interest on debt ..........  (14,656)  (12,230)  (12,649)   (9,390)   (6,671)   (4,809)
      other* ....................    1,895     1,698     1,344     1,308     1,513       992
                                  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
      sub-total - continuing
         operations ............. $ 60,663  $ 61,037  $ 47,236  $ 49,189  $ 39,421  $ 37,191
      illinois national bank** ..     --       5,324      --       5,200      --       4,731
                                  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
    operating earnings ..........   60,663    66,361    47,236    54,389    39,421    41,922
    sales of securities and
       unusual sales of assets ..   37,801    19,584    33,150    15,757    23,183    11,200
                                  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
    total earnings - all entities $ 98,464  $ 85,945  $ 80,386  $ 70,146  $ 62,604  $ 53,122
                                  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========
    _
     *amortization of intangibles arising in accounting for 
      purchases of businesses (i.e. sees, mutual and buffalo 
      evening news) is reflected in the category designated as 
      other.
    
    **berkshire divested itself of its ownership of the illinois 
      national bank on december 31, 1980.
    _
         blue chip stamps and wesco are public companies with 
    reporting requirements of their own.  on pages 38-50 of this 
    report we have reproduced the narrative reports of the principal 
    executives of both companies, in which they describe 1981 
    operations.  a copy of the full annual report of either company 
    will be mailed to any berkshire shareholder upon request to mr. 
    robert h. bird for blue chip stamps, 5801 south eastern avenue, 
    los angeles, california 90040, or to mrs. jeanne leach for wesco 
    financial corporation, 315 east colorado boulevard, pasadena, 
    california 91109.
    
         as we indicated earlier, undistributed earnings in companies 
    we do not control are now fully as important as the reported 
    operating earnings detailed in the preceding table.  the 
    distributed portion of earnings, of course, finds its way into 
    the table primarily through the net investment income segment of 
    insurance group earnings.
    
         we show below berkshires proportional holdings in those 
    non-controlled businesses for which only distributed earnings 
    (dividends) are included in our earnings.
    _
    no. of shares                                            cost       market
    -------------                                         ----------  ----------
                                                              (000s omitted)_
      451,650 (a)  affiliated publications, inc. ........  $  3,297    $ 14,114
      703,634 (a)  aluminum company of america ..........    19,359      18,031
      420,441 (a)  arcata corporation 
                     (including common equivalents) .....    14,076      15,136
      475,217 (b)  cleveland-cliffs iron company ........    12,942      14,362 
      441,522 (a)  gatx corporation .....................    17,147      13,466
    2,101,244 (b)  general foods, inc. ..................    66,277      66,714
    7,200,000 (a)  geico corporation ....................    47,138     199,800
    2,015,000 (a)  handy & harman .......................    21,825      36,270
      711,180 (a)  interpublic group of companies, inc.       4,531      23,202
      282,500 (a)  media general ........................     4,545      11,088
      391,400 (a)  ogilvy & mather international inc. ...     3,709      12,329
      370,088 (b)  pinkertons, inc. ....................    12,144      19,675
    1,764,824 (b)  r. j. reynolds industries, inc. ......    76,668      83,127
      785,225 (b)  safeco corporation ...................    21,329      31,016
    1,868,600 (a)  the washington post company ..........    10,628      58,160
                                                          ----------  ----------
                                                           $335,615    $616,490
    all other common stockholdings ......................    16,131      22,739
                                                          ----------  ----------
    total common stocks .................................  $351,746    $639,229
                                                          ==========  ==========
    
    (a) all owned by berkshire or its insurance subsidiaries.
    (b) blue chip and/or wesco own shares of these companies.  all 
        numbers represent berkshires net interest in the larger 
        gross holdings of the group.
    
         our controlled and non-controlled businesses operate over 
    such a wide spectrum of activities that detailed commentary here 
    would prove too lengthy.  much additional financial information 
    is included in managements discussion on pages 34-37 and in the 
    narrative reports on pages 38-50.  however, our largest area of 
    both controlled and non-controlled activity has been, and almost 
    certainly will continue to be, the property-casualty insurance 
    area, and commentary on important developments in that industry 
    is appropriate.
    
    
    _insurance industry conditions_
    
         forecasts, said sam goldwyn, are dangerous, particularly 
    those about the future. (berkshire shareholders may have reached 
    a similar conclusion after rereading our past annual reports 
    featuring your chairmans prescient analysis of textile 
    prospects.)
    
         there is no danger, however, in forecasting that 1982 will 
    be the worst year in recent history for insurance underwriting.  
    that result already has been guaranteed by present pricing 
    behavior, coupled with the term nature of the insurance contract.
    
         while many auto policies are priced and sold at six-month 
    intervals - and many property policies are sold for a three-year 
    term - a weighted average of the duration of all property-
    casualty insurance policies probably runs a little under twelve 
    months.  and prices for the insurance coverage, of course, are 
    frozen for the life of the contract.  thus, this years sales 
    contracts (premium written in the parlance of the industry) 
    determine about one-half of next years level of revenue 
    (premiums earned).  the remaining half will be determined by 
    sales contracts written next year that will be about 50% earned 
    in that year.  the profitability consequences are automatic: if 
    you make a mistake in pricing, you have to live with it for an 
    uncomfortable period of time.
    
         note in the table below the year-over-year gain in industry-
    wide premiums written and the impact that it has on the current 
    and following years level of underwriting profitability.  the 
    result is exactly as you would expect in an inflationary world.  
    when the volume gain is well up in double digits, it bodes well 
    for profitability trends in the current and following year.  when 
    the industry volume gain is small, underwriting experience very 
    shortly will get worse, no matter how unsatisfactory the current 
    level.
    
         the bests data in the table reflect the experience of 
    practically the entire industry, including stock, mutual and 
    reciprocal companies.  the combined ratio indicates total 
    operating and loss costs as compared to premiums; a ratio below 
    100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 100 indicates 
    a loss.
    _
                        yearly change     yearly change      combined ratio
                         in premium         in premium        after policy-
                         written (%)        earned (%)      holder dividends_
                        -------------     -------------     ----------------
    1972 ...............     10.2              10.9               96.2
    1973 ...............      8.0               8.8               99.2
    1974 ...............      6.2               6.9              105.4
    1975 ...............     11.0               9.6              107.9
    1976 ...............     21.9              19.4              102.4
    1977 ...............     19.8              20.5               97.2
    1978 ...............     12.8              14.3               97.5
    1979 ...............     10.3              10.4              100.6
    1980 ...............      6.0               7.8              103.1
    1981 ...............      3.6               4.1              105.7
    
    source:   bests aggregates and averages.
    
         as pogo would say, the future isnt what it used to be. 
    current pricing practices promise devastating results, 
    particularly if the respite from major natural disasters that the 
    industry has enjoyed in recent years should end.  _for 
    underwriting experience has been getting worse in spite of good 
    luck, not because of bad luck._  in recent years hurricanes have 
    stayed at sea and motorists have reduced their driving.  they 
    wont always be so obliging.
    
         and, of course the twin inflations, monetary and social 
    (the tendency of courts and juries to stretch the coverage of 
    policies beyond what insurers, relying upon contract terminology 
    and precedent, had expected), are unstoppable.  costs of 
    repairing both property and people - and the extent to which 
    these repairs are deemed to be the responsibility of the insurer 
    - will advance relentlessly.
    
         absent any bad luck (catastrophes, increased driving, etc.), 
    an immediate industry volume gain of at least 10% per year 
    probably is necessary to _stabilize_ the record level of 
    underwriting losses that will automatically prevail in mid-1982.  
    (most underwriters expect incurred losses in aggregate to rise at 
    least 10% annually; each, of course, counts on getting less than 
    his share.) every percentage point of annual premium growth below 
    the 10% equilibrium figure quickens the pace of deterioration.  
    quarterly data in 1981 underscore the conclusion that a terrible 
    underwriting picture is worsening at an accelerating rate.
    
         in the 1980 annual report we discussed the investment 
    policies that have destroyed the integrity of many insurers 
    balance sheets, forcing them to abandon underwriting discipline 
    and write business at any price in order to avoid negative cash 
    flow.  it was clear that insurers with large holdings of bonds 
    valued, for accounting purposes, at nonsensically high prices 
    would have little choice but to keep the money revolving by 
    selling large numbers of policies at nonsensically low prices.  
    such insurers necessarily fear a major decrease in volume more 
    than they fear a major underwriting loss.
    
         but, unfortunately, all insurers are affected; its 
    difficult to price much differently than your most threatened 
    competitor.  this pressure continues unabated and adds a new 
    motivation to the others that drive many insurance managers to 
    push for business; worship of size over profitability, and the 
    fear that market share surrendered never can be regained.
    
         whatever the reasons, we believe it is true that virtually 
    no major property-casualty insurer - despite protests by the 
    entire industry that rates are inadequate and great selectivity 
    should be exercised - has been willing to turn down business to 
    the point where cash flow has turned significantly negative.  
    absent such a willingness, prices will remain under severe 
    pressure.
    
         commentators continue to talk of the underwriting cycle, 
    usually implying a regularity of rhythm and a relatively constant 
    midpoint of profitability our own view is different.  we believe 
    that very large, although obviously varying, underwriting losses 
    will be the norm for the industry, and that the best underwriting 
    years in the future decade may appear substandard against the 
    average year of the past decade.
    
         we have no magic formula to insulate our controlled 
    insurance companies against this deteriorating future.  our 
    managers, particularly phil liesche, bill lyons, roland miller, 
    floyd taylor and milt thornton, have done a magnificent job of 
    swimming against the tide.  we have sacrificed much volume, but 
    have maintained a substantial underwriting superiority in 
    relation to industry-wide results.  the outlook at berkshire is 
    for continued low volume.  our financial position offers us 
    maximum flexibility, a very rare condition in the property-
    casualty insurance industry.  and, at some point, should fear 
    ever prevail throughout the industry, our financial strength 
    could become an operational asset of immense value.
    
         we believe that geico corporation, our major non-controlled 
    business operating in this field, is, by virtue of its extreme 
    and improving operating efficiency, in a considerably more 
    protected position than almost any other major insurer.  geico is 
    a brilliantly run implementation of a very important business 
    idea.
    
    
    _shareholder designated contributions_
    
         our new program enabling shareholders to designate the 
    recipients of corporate charitable contributions was greeted with 
    extraordinary enthusiasm.  a copy of the letter sent october 14, 
    1981 describing this program appears on pages 51-53.  of 932,206 
    shares eligible for participation (shares where the name of the 
    actual owner appeared on our stockholder record), 95.6% 
    responded.  even excluding buffet-related shares, the response 
    topped 90%.
    
         in addition, more than 3% of our shareholders voluntarily 
    wrote letters or notes, all but one approving of the program.  
    both the level of participation and of commentary surpass any 
    shareholder response we have witnessed, even when such response 
    has been intensively solicited by corporate staff and highly paid 
    professional proxy organizations.  in contrast, your 
    extraordinary level of response occurred without even the nudge 
    of a company-provided return envelope.  this self-propelled 
    behavior speaks well for the program, and speaks well for our 
    shareholders.
    
         apparently the owners of our corporation like both 
    possessing and exercising the ability to determine where gifts of 
    their funds shall be made.  the father-knows-best school of 
    corporate governance will be surprised to find that none of our 
    shareholders sent in a designation sheet with instructions that 
    the officers of berkshire - in their superior wisdom, of course - 
    make the decision on charitable funds applicable to his shares.  
    nor did anyone suggest that his share of our charitable funds be 
    used to match contributions made by our corporate directors to 
    charities of the directors choice (a popular, proliferating and 
    non-publicized policy at many large corporations).
    
         all told, $1,783,655 of shareholder-designed contributions 
    were distributed to about 675 charities.  in addition, berkshire 
    and subsidiaries continue to make certain contributions pursuant 
    to local level decisions made by our operating managers.
    
         there will be some years, perhaps two or three out of ten, 
    when contributions by berkshire will produce substandard tax 
    deductions - or none at all.  in those years we will not effect 
    our shareholder designated charitable program.  in all other 
    years we expect to inform you about october 10th of the amount 
    per share that you may designate.  a reply form will accompany 
    the notice, and you will be given about three weeks to respond 
    with your designation.  _to qualify, your shares must be 
    registered in your own name or the name of an owning trust, 
    corporation, partnership or estate, if applicable, on our 
    stockholder list of september 30th, or the friday preceding if 
    such date falls on a saturday or sunday._
    
         our only disappointment with this program in 1981 was that 
    some of our shareholders, through no fault of their own, missed 
    the opportunity to participate.  the treasury department ruling 
    allowing us to proceed without tax uncertainty was received early 
    in october.  the ruling did not cover participation by 
    shareholders whose stock was registered in the name of nominees, 
    such as brokers, and additionally required that the owners of all 
    designating shares make certain assurances to berkshire.  these 
    assurances could not be given us in effective form by nominee 
    holders.
    
         under these circumstances, we attempted to communicate with 
    all of our owners promptly (via the october 14th letter) so that, 
    if they wished, they could prepare themselves to participate by 
    the november 13th record date.  it was particularly important 
    that this information be communicated promptly to stockholders 
    whose holdings were in nominee name, since they would not be 
    eligible unless they took action to re-register their shares 
    before the record date.
    
         unfortunately, communication to such non-record shareholders 
    could take place only through the nominees.  we therefore 
    strongly urged those nominees, mostly brokerage houses, to 
    promptly transmit our letter to the real owners.  we explained 
    that their failure to do so could deprive such owners of an 
    important benefit.
    
         the results from our urgings would not strengthen the case 
    for private ownership of the u.s. postal service.  many of our 
    shareholders never heard from their brokers (as some shareholders 
    told us after reading news accounts of the program).  others were 
    forwarded our letter too late for action.
    
         one of the largest brokerage houses claiming to hold stock 
    for sixty of its clients (about 4% of our shareholder 
    population), apparently transmitted our letter about three weeks 
    after receipt - too late for any of the sixty to participate. 
    (such lassitude did not pervade all departments of that firm; it 
    billed berkshire for mailing services within six days of that 
    belated and ineffectual action.)
    
         we recite such horror stories for two reasons: (1) if you 
    wish to participate in future designated contribution programs, 
    be sure to have your stock registered in your name well before 
    september 30th; and (2) even if you dont care to participate and 
    prefer to leave your stock in nominee form, it would be wise to 
    have at least one share registered in your own name.  by so 
    doing, you can be sure that you will be notified of any important 
    corporate news at the same time as all other shareholders.
    
         the designated-contributions idea, along with many other 
    ideas that have turned out well for us, was conceived by charlie 
    munger, vice chairman of berkshire and chairman of blue chip.  
    irrespective of titles, charlie and i work as partners in 
    managing all controlled companies.  to almost a sinful degree, we 
    enjoy our work as managing partners.  and we enjoy having you as 
    our financial partners.
    
    
                                              warren e. buffett
                                              chairman of the board
    
    

