**berkshire hathaway inc.**
    
    
    
                                                      march 3, 1983
    
    
    
    _to the stockholders of berkshire hathaway inc.:_
    
         operating earnings of $31.5 million in 1982 amounted to only 
    9.8% of beginning equity capital (valuing securities at cost), 
    down from 15.2% in 1981 and far below our recent high of 19.4% in 
    1978.  this decline largely resulted from:
    
         (1) a significant deterioration in insurance underwriting 
             results;
    
         (2) a considerable expansion of equity capital without a 
             corresponding growth in the businesses we operate 
             directly; and
    
         (3) a continually-enlarging commitment of our resources to 
             investment in partially-owned, nonoperated businesses; 
             accounting rules dictate that a major part of our 
             pro-rata share of earnings from such businesses must be 
             excluded from berkshires reported earnings.
    
         it was only a few years ago that we told you that the 
    operating earnings/equity capital percentage, with proper 
    allowance for a few other variables, was the most important 
    yardstick of single-year managerial performance.  while we still 
    believe this to be the case with the vast majority of companies, 
    we believe its utility in our own case has greatly diminished.  
    you should be suspicious of such an assertion.  yardsticks seldom 
    are discarded while yielding favorable readings.  but when 
    results deteriorate, most managers favor disposition of the 
    yardstick rather than disposition of the manager.
    
         to managers faced with such deterioration, a more flexible 
    measurement system often suggests itself: just shoot the arrow of 
    business performance into a blank canvas and then carefully draw 
    the bullseye around the implanted arrow.  we generally believe in 
    pre-set, long-lived and small bullseyes.  however, because of the 
    importance of item (3) above, further explained in the following 
    section, we believe our abandonment of the operating 
    earnings/equity capital bullseye to be warranted.
    
    
    _non-reported ownership earnings_
    
         the appended financial statements reflect accounting 
    earnings that generally include our proportionate share of 
    earnings from any underlying business in which our ownership is 
    at least 20%.  below the 20% ownership figure, however, only our 
    share of dividends paid by the underlying business units is 
    included in our accounting numbers; undistributed earnings of 
    such less-than-20%-owned businesses are totally ignored.
    
         there are a few exceptions to this rule; e.g., we own about 
    35% of geico corporation but, because we have assigned our voting 
    rights, the company is treated for accounting purposes as a less-
    than-20% holding.  thus, dividends received from geico in 1982 of 
    $3.5 million after tax are the only item included in our 
    accountingearnings.  an additional $23 million that represents 
    our share of geicos undistributed operating earnings for 1982 is 
    totally excluded from our reported operating earnings.  if geico 
    had earned less money in 1982 but had paid an additional $1 
    million in dividends, our reported earnings would have been 
    larger despite the poorer business results.  conversely, if geico 
    had earned an additional $100 million - and retained it all - our 
    reported earnings would have been unchanged.  clearly 
    accounting earnings can seriously misrepresent economic 
    reality.
    
         we prefer a concept of economic earnings that includes all 
    undistributed earnings, regardless of ownership percentage.  in 
    our view, the value to all owners of the retained earnings of a 
    business enterprise is determined by the effectiveness with which 
    those earnings are used - and not by the size of ones ownership 
    percentage.  if you have owned .01 of 1% of berkshire during the 
    past decade, you have benefited economically in full measure from 
    your share of our retained earnings, no matter what your 
    accounting system.  proportionately, you have done just as well 
    as if you had owned the magic 20%.  but if you have owned 100% of 
    a great many capital-intensive businesses during the decade, 
    retained earnings that were credited fully and with painstaking 
    precision to you under standard accounting methods have resulted 
    in minor or zero economic value.  this is not a criticism of 
    accounting procedures.  we would not like to have the job of 
    designing a better system.  its simply to say that managers and 
    investors alike must understand that accounting numbers are the 
    beginning, not the end, of business valuation.
    
         in most corporations, less-than-20% ownership positions are 
    unimportant (perhaps, in part, because they prevent maximization 
    of cherished reported earnings) and the distinction between 
    accounting and economic results we have just discussed matters 
    little.  but in our own case, such positions are of very large 
    and growing importance.  their magnitude, we believe, is what 
    makes our reported operating earnings figure of limited 
    significance.
    
         in our 1981 annual report we predicted that our share of 
    undistributed earnings from four of our major non-controlled 
    holdings would aggregate over $35 million in 1982.  with no 
    change in our holdings of three of these companies - geico, 
    general foods and the washington post - and a considerable 
    increase in our ownership of the fourth, r. j. reynolds 
    industries, our share of undistributed 1982 operating earnings of 
    this group came to well over $40 million.  this number - not 
    reflected at all in our earnings - is greater than our total 
    reported earnings, which include only the $14 million in 
    dividends received from these companies.  and, of course, we have 
    a number of smaller ownership interests that, in aggregate, had 
    substantial additional undistributed earnings.
    
          we attach real significance to the general magnitude of 
    these numbers, but we dont believe they should be carried to ten 
    decimal places.  realization by berkshire of such retained 
    earnings through improved market valuations is subject to very 
    substantial, but indeterminate, taxation.  and while retained 
    earnings over the years, and in the aggregate, have translated 
    into at least equal market value for shareholders, the 
    translation has been both extraordinarily uneven among companies 
    and irregular and unpredictable in timing.
    
         however, this very unevenness and irregularity offers 
    advantages to the value-oriented purchaser of fractional portions 
    of businesses.  this investor may select from almost the entire 
    array of major american corporations, including many far superior 
    to virtually any of the businesses that could be bought in their 
    entirety in a negotiated deal.  and fractional-interest purchases 
    can be made in an auction market where prices are set by 
    participants with behavior patterns that sometimes resemble those 
    of an army of manic-depressive lemmings.
    
         within this gigantic auction arena, it is our job to select 
    businesses with economic characteristics allowing each dollar of 
    retained earnings to be translated eventually into at least a 
    dollar of market value.  despite a lot of mistakes, we have so 
    far achieved this goal.  in doing so, we have been greatly 
    assisted by arthur okuns patron saint for economists - st. 
    offset.  in some cases, that is, retained earnings attributable 
    to our ownership position have had insignificant or even negative 
    impact on market value, while in other major positions a dollar 
    retained by an investee corporation has been translated into two 
    or more dollars of market value.  to date, our corporate over-
    achievers have more than offset the laggards.  if we can continue 
    this record, it will validate our efforts to maximize economic 
    earnings, regardless of the impact upon accounting earnings.
    
         satisfactory as our partial-ownership approach has been, 
    what really makes us dance is the purchase of 100% of good 
    businesses at reasonable prices.  weve accomplished this feat a 
    few times (and expect to do so again), but it is an 
    extraordinarily difficult job - far more difficult than the 
    purchase at attractive prices of fractional interests.
    
         as we look at the major acquisitions that others made during 
    1982, our reaction is not envy, but relief that we were non-
    participants.  for in many of these acquisitions, managerial 
    intellect wilted in competition with managerial adrenaline the 
    thrill of the chase blinded the pursuers to the consequences of 
    the catch.  pascals observation seems apt: it has struck me 
    that all mens misfortunes spring from the single cause that they 
    are unable to stay quietly in one room.
    
         (your chairman left the room once too often last year and 
    almost starred in the acquisition follies of 1982.  in 
    retrospect, our major accomplishment of the year was that a very 
    large purchase to which we had firmly committed was unable to be 
    completed for reasons totally beyond our control.  had it come 
    off, this transaction would have consumed extraordinary amounts 
    of time and energy, all for a most uncertain payoff.  if we were 
    to introduce graphics to this report, illustrating favorable 
    business developments of the past year, two blank pages depicting 
    this blown deal would be the appropriate centerfold.)
    
         our partial-ownership approach can be continued soundly only 
    as long as portions of attractive businesses can be acquired at 
    attractive prices.  we need a moderately-priced stock market to 
    assist us in this endeavor.  the market, like the lord, helps 
    those who help themselves.  but, unlike the lord, the market does 
    not forgive those who know not what they do.  for the investor, a 
    too-high purchase price for the stock of an excellent company can 
    undo the effects of a subsequent decade of favorable business 
    developments.
    
         should the stock market advance to considerably higher 
    levels, our ability to utilize capital effectively in partial-
    ownership positions will be reduced or eliminated.  this will 
    happen periodically: just ten years ago, at the height of the 
    two-tier market mania (with high-return-on-equity businesses bid 
    to the sky by institutional investors), berkshires insurance 
    subsidiaries owned only $18 million in market value of equities, 
    excluding their interest in blue chip stamps.  at that time, such 
    equity holdings amounted to about 15% of our insurance company 
    investments versus the present 80%.  there were as many good 
    businesses around in 1972 as in 1982, but the prices the stock 
    market placed upon those businesses in 1972 looked absurd.  while 
    high stock prices in the future would make our performance look 
    good temporarily, they would hurt our long-term business 
    prospects rather than help them.  we currently are seeing early 
    traces of this problem.
    
    
    _long-term corporate performance_
    
         our gain in net worth during 1982, valuing equities held by 
    our insurance subsidiaries at market value (less capital gain 
    taxes payable if unrealized gains were actually realized) 
    amounted to $208 million.  on a beginning net worth base of $519 
    million, the percentage gain was 40%.
    
         during the 18-year tenure of present management, book value 
    has grown from $19.46 per share to $737.43 per share, or 22.0% 
    compounded annually.  you can be certain that this percentage 
    will diminish in the future.  geometric progressions eventually 
    forge their own anchors.
    
         berkshires economic goal remains to produce a long-term 
    rate of return well above the return achieved by the average 
    large american corporation.  our willingness to purchase either 
    partial or total ownership positions in favorably-situated 
    businesses, coupled with reasonable discipline about the prices 
    we are willing to pay, should give us a good chance of achieving 
    our goal.
    
         again this year the gain in market valuation of partially-
    owned businesses outpaced the gain in underlying economic value 
    of those businesses.  for example, $79 million of our $208 
    million gain is attributable to an increased market price for 
    geico.  this company continues to do exceptionally well, and we 
    are more impressed than ever by the strength of geicos basic 
    business idea and by the management skills of jack byrne. 
    (although not found in the catechism of the better business 
    schools, let jack do it works fine as a corporate creed for 
    us.)
    
         however, geicos increase in market value during the past 
    two years has been considerably greater than the gain in its 
    intrinsic business value, impressive as the latter has been.  we 
    expected such a favorable variation at some point, as the 
    perception of investors converged with business reality.  and we 
    look forward to substantial future gains in underlying business 
    value accompanied by irregular, but eventually full, market 
    recognition of such gains.
    
         year-to-year variances, however, cannot consistently be in 
    our favor.  even if our partially-owned businesses continue to 
    perform well in an economic sense, there will be years when they 
    perform poorly in the market.  at such times our net worth could 
    shrink significantly.  we will not be distressed by such a 
    shrinkage; if the businesses continue to look attractive and we 
    have cash available, we simply will add to our holdings at even 
    more favorable prices.
    
    
    _sources of reported earnings_
    
         the table below shows the sources of berkshires reported 
    earnings.  in 1981 and 1982 berkshire owned about 60% of blue 
    chip stamps which, in turn, owned 80% of wesco financial 
    corporation.  the table displays aggregate operating earnings of 
    the various business entities, as well as berkshires share of 
    those earnings.  all of the significant gains and losses 
    attributable to unusual sales of assets by any of the business 
    entities are aggregated with securities transactions in the line 
    near the bottom of the table, and are not included in operating 
    earnings.
    _
                                                                             net earnings
                                       earnings before income taxes            after tax
                                  --------------------------------------  ------------------
                                        total          berkshire share     berkshire share
                                  ------------------  ------------------  ------------------
                                    1982      1981      1982      1981      1982      1981
                                  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
                                                        (000s omitted)_
    operating earnings:
      insurance group:
        underwriting ............ $(21,558)  $ 1,478  $(21,558)  $ 1,478  $(11,345)  $   798
        net investment income ...   41,620    38,823    41,620    38,823    35,270    32,401
      berkshire-waumbec textiles    (1,545)   (2,669)   (1,545)   (2,669)     (862)   (1,493)
      associated retail stores ..      914     1,763       914     1,763       446       759
      sees candies .............   23,884    20,961    14,235    12,493     6,914     5,910
      buffalo evening news ......   (1,215)   (1,217)     (724)     (725)     (226)     (320)
      blue chip stamps - parent      4,182     3,642     2,492     2,171     2,472     2,134
      wesco financial - parent ..    6,156     4,495     2,937     2,145     2,210     1,590
      mutual savings and loan ...       (6)    1,605        (2)      766     1,524     1,536
      precision steel ...........    1,035     3,453       493     1,648       265       841
      interest on debt ..........  (14,996)  (14,656)  (12,977)  (12,649)   (6,951)   (6,671)
      other* ....................    2,631     2,985     1,857     1,992     1,780     1,936
                                  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
    operating earnings ..........   41,102    60,663    27,742    47,236    31,497    39,421
    sales of securities and
       unusual sales of assets ..   36,651    37,801    21,875    33,150    14,877    23,183
                                  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
    total earnings - all entities $ 77,753  $ 98,464  $ 49,617  $ 80,386  $ 46,374  $ 62,604
                                  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========
    
    * amortization of intangibles arising in accounting for purchases 
      of businesses (i.e. sees, mutual and buffalo evening news) is 
      reflected in the category designated as other.
    
         on pages 45-61 of this report we have reproduced the 
    narrative reports of the principal executives of blue chip and 
    wesco, in which they describe 1982 operations.  a copy of the 
    full annual report of either company will be mailed to any 
    berkshire shareholder upon request to mr. robert h. bird for 
    blue chip stamps, 5801 south eastern avenue, los angeles, 
    california 90040, or to mrs. jeanne leach for wesco financial 
    corporation, 315 east colorado boulevard, pasadena, california 
    91109.
    
         i believe you will find the blue chip chronicle of 
    developments in the buffalo newspaper situation particularly 
    interesting.  there are now only 14 cities in the united states 
    with a daily newspaper whose weekday circulation exceeds that of 
    the buffalo news.  but the real story has been the growth in 
    sunday circulation.  six years ago, prior to introduction of a 
    sunday edition of the news, the long-established courier-express, 
    as the only sunday newspaper published in buffalo, had 
    circulation of 272,000.  the news now has sunday circulation of 
    367,000, a 35% gain - even though the number of households within 
    the primary circulation area has shown little change during the 
    six years.  we know of no city in the united states with a long 
    history of seven-day newspaper publication in which the 
    percentage of households purchasing the sunday newspaper has 
    grown at anything like this rate.  to the contrary, in most 
    cities household penetration figures have grown negligibly, or 
    not at all.  our key managers in buffalo - henry urban, stan 
    lipsey, murray light, clyde pinson, dave perona and dick feather 
    - deserve great credit for this unmatched expansion in sunday 
    readership.
    
         as we indicated earlier, undistributed earnings in companies 
    we do not control are now fully as important as the reported 
    operating earnings detailed in the preceding table.  the 
    distributed portion of non-controlled earnings, of course, finds 
    its way into that table primarily through the net investment 
    income segment of insurance group earnings.
    
         we show below berkshires proportional holdings in those 
    non-controlled businesses for which only distributed earnings 
    (dividends) are included in our earnings.
    _
    no. of shares
    or share equiv.                                          cost       market  
    ---------------                                       ----------  ----------
                                                              (000s omitted)_
       460,650 (a)   affiliated publications, inc. ......  $  3,516    $ 16,929
       908,800 (c)   crum & forster .....................    47,144      48,962	
     2,101,244 (b)   general foods, inc. ................    66,277      83,680
     7,200,000 (a)   geico corporation ..................    47,138     309,600
     2,379,200 (a)   handy & harman .....................    27,318      46,692
       711,180 (a)   interpublic group of companies, inc.     4,531      34,314
       282,500 (a)   media general ......................     4,545      12,289
       391,400 (a)   ogilvy & mather intl. inc. ........     3,709      17,319
     3,107,675 (b)   r. j. reynolds industries ..........   142,343     158,715
     1,531,391 (a)   time, inc. .........................    45,273      79,824
     1,868,600 (a)   the washington post company ........    10,628     103,240
                                                          ----------  ----------
                                                           $402,422    $911,564
                     all other common stockholdings .....    21,611      34,058
                                                          ----------  ----------                                                        
                     total common stocks                   $424,033    $945,622
                                                          ==========  ==========
    
    (a) all owned by berkshire or its insurance subsidiaries.
    
    (b) blue chip and/or wesco own shares of these companies.  all 
        numbers represent berkshires net interest in the larger 
        gross holdings of the group.
    
    (c) temporary holding as cash substitute.
    
         in case you havent noticed, there is an important 
    investment lesson to be derived from this table: nostalgia should 
    be weighted heavily in stock selection.  our two largest 
    unrealized gains are in washington post and geico, companies with 
    which your chairman formed his first commercial connections at 
    the ages of 13 and 20, respectively after straying for roughly 25 
    years, we returned as investors in the mid-1970s.  the table 
    quantifies the rewards for even long-delayed corporate fidelity. 
    
         our controlled and non-controlled businesses operate over 
    such a wide spectrum that detailed commentary here would prove 
    too lengthy.  much financial and operational information 
    regarding the controlled businesses is included in managements 
    discussion on pages 34-39, and in the narrative reports on pages 
    45-61.  however, our largest area of business activity has been, 
    and almost certainly will continue to be, the property-casualty 
    insurance area.  so commentary on developments in that industry 
    is appropriate.
    
    
    _insurance industry conditions_
    
         we show below an updated table of the industry statistics we 
    utilized in last years annual report.  its message is clear: 
    underwriting results in 1983 will not be a sight for the 
    squeamish.
    _
                          yearly change     yearly change      combined ratio
                           in premiums       in premiums        after policy-
                           written (%)        earned (%)      holder dividends_
                          -------------     -------------     ----------------
    1972 ................     10.2              10.9                96.2
    1973 ................      8.0               8.8                99.2
    1974 ................      6.2               6.9               105.4
    1975 ................     11.0               9.6               107.9
    1976 ................     21.9              19.4               102.4
    1977 ................     19.8              20.5                97.2
    1978 ................     12.8              14.3                97.5
    1979 ................     10.3              10.4               100.6
    1980 ................      6.0               7.8               103.1
    1981 (rev.) .........      3.9               4.1               106.0
    1982 (est.) .........      5.1               4.6               109.5
    
    source:   bests aggregates and averages.
    
         the bests data reflect the experience of practically the 
    entire industry, including stock, mutual and reciprocal 
    companies.  the combined ratio represents total operating and 
    loss costs as compared to revenue from premiums; a ratio below 
    100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 100 indicates 
    a loss.
    
         for reasons outlined in last years report, as long as the 
    annual gain in industry premiums written falls well below 10%, 
    you can expect the underwriting picture in the next year to 
    deteriorate.  this will be true even at todays lower general 
    rate of inflation.  with the number of policies increasing 
    annually, medical inflation far exceeding general inflation, and 
    concepts of insured liability broadening, it is highly unlikely 
    that yearly increases in insured losses will fall much below 10%.  
    
         you should be further aware that the 1982 combined ratio of 
    109.5 represents a best case estimate.  in a given year, it is 
    possible for an insurer to show almost any profit number it 
    wishes, particularly if it (1) writes long-tail business 
    (coverage where current costs can be only estimated, because 
    claim payments are long delayed), (2) has been adequately 
    reserved in the past, or (3)	is growing very rapidly.  there are 
    indications that several large insurers opted in 1982 for obscure 
    accounting and reserving maneuvers that masked significant 
    deterioration in their underlying businesses.  in insurance, as 
    elsewhere, the reaction of weak managements to weak operations is 
    often weak accounting. (its difficult for an empty sack to 
    stand upright.)
    
         the great majority of managements, however, try to play it 
    straight.  but even managements of integrity may subconsciously 
    be less willing in poor profit years to fully recognize adverse 
    loss trends.  industry statistics indicate some deterioration in 
    loss reserving practices during 1982 and the true combined ratio 
    is likely to be modestly worse than indicated by our table.
    
         the conventional wisdom is that 1983 or 1984 will see the 
    worst of underwriting experience and then, as in the past, the 
    cycle will move, significantly and steadily, toward better 
    results.  we disagree because of a pronounced change in the 
    competitive environment, hard to see for many years but now quite 
    visible.
    
         to understand the change, we need to look at some major 
    factors that affect levels of corporate profitability generally.  
    businesses in industries with both substantial over-capacity and 
    a commodity product (undifferentiated in any customer-important 
    way by factors such as performance, appearance, service support, 
    etc.) are prime candidates for profit troubles.  these may be 
    escaped, true, if prices or costs are administered in some manner 
    and thereby insulated at least partially from normal market 
    forces.  this administration can be carried out (a) legally 
    through government intervention (until recently, this category 
    included pricing for truckers and deposit costs for financial 
    institutions), (b) illegally through collusion, or (c) extra-
    legally through opec-style foreign cartelization (with tag-along 
    benefits for domestic non-cartel operators).
    
         if, however, costs and prices are determined by full-bore 
    competition, there is more than ample capacity, and the buyer 
    cares little about whose product or distribution services he 
    uses, industry economics are almost certain to be unexciting.  
    they may well be disastrous.
    
         hence the constant struggle of every vendor to establish and 
    emphasize special qualities of product or service.  this works 
    with candy bars (customers buy by brand name, not by asking for a 
    two-ounce candy bar) but doesnt work with sugar (how often do 
    you hear, ill have a cup of coffee with cream and c & h sugar, 
    please).
    
         in many industries, differentiation simply cant be made 
    meaningful.  a few producers in such industries may consistently 
    do well if they have a cost advantage that is both wide and 
    sustainable.  by definition such exceptions are few, and, in many 
    industries, are non-existent.  for the great majority of 
    companies selling commodityproducts, a depressing equation of 
    business economics prevails: persistent over-capacity without 
    administered prices (or costs) equals poor profitability.
    
         of course, over-capacity may eventually self-correct, either 
    as capacity shrinks or demand expands.  unfortunately for the 
    participants, such corrections often are long delayed.  when they 
    finally occur, the rebound to prosperity frequently produces a 
    pervasive enthusiasm for expansion that, within a few years, 
    again creates over-capacity and a new profitless environment.  in 
    other words, nothing fails like success.
    
         what finally determines levels of long-term profitability in 
    such industries is the ratio of supply-tight to supply-ample 
    years.  frequently that ratio is dismal. (it seems as if the most 
    recent supply-tight period in our textile business - it occurred 
    some years back - lasted the better part of a morning.)
    
         in some industries, however, capacity-tight conditions can 
    last a long time.  sometimes actual growth in demand will outrun 
    forecasted growth for an extended period.  in other cases, adding 
    capacity requires very long lead times because complicated 
    manufacturing facilities must be planned and built.
    
         but in the insurance business, to return to that subject, 
    capacity can be instantly created by capital plus an 
    underwriters willingness to sign his name. (even capital is less 
    important in a world in which state-sponsored guaranty funds 
    protect many policyholders against insurer insolvency.) under 
    almost all conditions except that of fear for survival - 
    produced, perhaps, by a stock market debacle or a truly major 
    natural disaster - the insurance industry operates under the 
    competitive sword of substantial overcapacity.  generally, also, 
    despite heroic attempts to do otherwise, the industry sells a 
    relatively undifferentiated commodity-type product. (many 
    insureds, including the managers of large businesses, do not even 
    know the names of their insurers.) insurance, therefore, would 
    seem to be a textbook case of an industry usually faced with the 
    deadly combination of excess capacity and a commodity product.
    
         why, then, was underwriting, despite the existence of 
    cycles, generally profitable over many decades? (from 1950 
    through 1970, the industry combined ratio averaged 99.0.  
    allowing all investment income plus 1% of premiums to flow 
    through to profits.) the answer lies primarily in the historic 
    methods of regulation and distribution.  for much of this 
    century, a large portion of the industry worked, in effect, 
    within a legal quasi-administered pricing system fostered by 
    insurance regulators.  while price competition existed, it was 
    not pervasive among the larger companies.  the main competition 
    was for agents, who were courted via various non-price-related 
    strategies.
    
         for the giants of the industry, most rates were set through 
    negotiations between industry bureaus (or through companies 
    acting in accord with their recommendations) and state 
    regulators.  dignified haggling occurred, but it was between 
    company and regulator rather than between company and customer.  
    when the dust settled, giant a charged the same price as giant b 
    - and both companies and agents were prohibited by law from 
    cutting such filed rates.
    
         the company-state negotiated prices included specific profit 
    allowances and, when loss data indicated that current prices were 
    unprofitable, both company managements and state regulators 
    expected that they would act together to correct the situation.  
    thus, most of the pricing actions of the giants of the industry 
    were gentlemanly, predictable, and profit-producing.  of prime 
    importance - and in contrast to the way most of the business 
    world operated - insurance companies could legally price their 
    way to profitability even in the face of substantial over-
    capacity.
    
         that day is gone.  although parts of the old structure 
    remain, far more than enough new capacity exists outside of that 
    structure to force all parties, old and new, to respond.  the new 
    capacity uses various methods of distribution and is not 
    reluctant to use price as a prime competitive weapon.  indeed, it 
    relishes that use.  in the process, customers have learned that 
    insurance is no longer a one-price business.  they wont forget.
    
         future profitability of the industry will be determined by 
    current competitive characteristics, not past ones.  many 
    managers have been slow to recognize this.  its not only 
    generals that prefer to fight the last war.  most business and 
    investment analysis also comes from the rear-view mirror.  it 
    seems clear to us, however, that only one condition will allow 
    the insurance industry to achieve significantly improved 
    underwriting results.  that is the same condition that will allow 
    better results for the aluminum, copper, or corn producer - a 
    major narrowing of the gap between demand and supply.
    
         unfortunately, there can be no surge in demand for insurance 
    policies comparable to one that might produce a market tightness 
    in copper or aluminum.  rather, the supply of available insurance 
    coverage must be curtailed.  supply, in this context, is mental 
    rather than physical: plants or companies need not be shut; only 
    the willingness of underwriters to sign their names need be 
    curtailed.
    
         this contraction will not happen because of generally poor 
    profit levels.  bad profits produce much hand-wringing and 
    finger-pointing.  but they do not lead major sources of insurance 
    capacity to turn their backs on very large chunks of business, 
    thereby sacrificing market share and industry significance.
    
         instead, major capacity withdrawals require a shock factor 
    such as a natural or financial megadisaster.  one might occur 
    tomorrow - or many years from now.  the insurance business - even 
    taking investment income into account - will not be particularly 
    profitable in the meantime.
    
         when supply ultimately contracts, large amounts of business 
    will be available for the few with large capital capacity, a 
    willingness to commit it, and an in-place distribution system.  
    we would expect great opportunities for our insurance 
    subsidiaries at such a time.
    
         during 1982, our insurance underwriting deteriorated far 
    more than did the industrys.  from a profit position well above 
    average, we, slipped to a performance modestly below average.  
    the biggest swing was in national indemnitys traditional 
    coverages.  lines that have been highly profitable for us in the 
    past are now priced at levels that guarantee underwriting losses.  
    in 1983 we expect our insurance group to record an average 
    performance in an industry in which average is very poor.
    
         two of our stars, milt thornton at cypress and floyd taylor 
    at kansas fire and casualty, continued their outstanding records 
    of producing an underwriting profit every year since joining us.  
    both milt and floyd simply are incapable of being average.  they 
    maintain a passionately proprietary attitude toward their 
    operations and have developed a business culture centered upon 
    unusual cost-consciousness and customer service.  it shows on 
    their scorecards.
    
         during 1982, parent company responsibility for most of our 
    insurance operations was given to mike goldberg.  planning, 
    recruitment, and monitoring all have shown significant 
    improvement since mike replaced me in this role.
    
         geico continues to be managed with a zeal for efficiency and 
    value to the customer that virtually guarantees unusual success.  
    jack byrne and bill snyder are achieving the most elusive of 
    human goals - keeping things simple and remembering what you set 
    out to do.  in lou simpson, additionally, geico has the best 
    investment manager in the property-casualty business.  we are 
    happy with every aspect of this operation.  geico is a 
    magnificent illustration of the high-profit exception we 
    described earlier in discussing commodity industries with over-
    capacity - a company with a wide and sustainable cost advantage.  
    our 35% interest in geico represents about $250 million of 
    premium volume, an amount considerably greater than all of the 
    direct volume we produce.
    
    
    _issuance of equity_
    
         berkshire and blue chip are considering merger in 1983.  if 
    it takes place, it will involve an exchange of stock based upon 
    an identical valuation method applied to both companies.  the one 
    other significant issuance of shares by berkshire or its 
    affiliated companies that occurred during present managements 
    tenure was in the 1978 merger of berkshire with diversified 
    retailing company.
    
         our share issuances follow a simple basic rule: we will not 
    issue shares unless we receive as much intrinsic business value 
    as we give.  such a policy might seem axiomatic.  why, you might 
    ask, would anyone issue dollar bills in exchange for fifty-cent 
    pieces?  unfortunately, many corporate managers have been willing 
    to do just that.
    
         the first choice of these managers in making acquisitions 
    may be to use cash or debt.  but frequently the ceos cravings 
    outpace cash and credit resources (certainly mine always have).  
    frequently, also, these cravings occur when his own stock is 
    selling far below intrinsic business value.  this state of 
    affairs produces a moment of truth.  at that point, as yogi berra 
    has said, you can observe a lot just by watching. for 
    shareholders then will find which objective the management truly 
    prefers - expansion of domain or maintenance of owners wealth.
    
         the need to choose between these objectives occurs for some 
    simple reasons.  companies often sell in the stock market below 
    their intrinsic business value.  but when a company wishes to 
    sell out completely, in a negotiated transaction, it inevitably 
    wants to - and usually can - receive full business value in 
    whatever kind of currency the value is to be delivered.  if cash 
    is to be used in payment, the sellers calculation of value 
    received couldnt be easier.  if stock of the buyer is to be the 
    currency, the sellers calculation is still relatively easy: just 
    figure the market value in cash of what is to be received in 
    stock.
    
         meanwhile, the buyer wishing to use his own stock as 
    currency for the purchase has no problems if the stock is selling 
    in the market at full intrinsic value.
    
         but suppose it is selling at only half intrinsic value.  in 
    that case, the buyer is faced with the unhappy prospect of using 
    a substantially undervalued currency to make its purchase.
    
         ironically, were the buyer to instead be a seller of its 
    entire business, it too could negotiate for, and probably get, 
    full intrinsic business value.  but when the buyer makes a 
    partial sale of itself - _and that is what the issuance of shares 
    to make an acquisition amounts to_ - it can customarily get no 
    higher value set on its shares than the market chooses to grant 
    it.
    
         the acquirer who nevertheless barges ahead ends up using an 
    undervalued (market value) currency to pay for a fully valued 
    (negotiated value) property.  in effect, the acquirer must give 
    up $2 of value to receive $1 of value.  under such circumstances, 
    a marvelous business purchased at a fair sales price becomes a 
    terrible buy.  for gold valued as gold cannot be purchased 
    intelligently through the utilization of gold - or even silver - 
    valued as lead.
    
         if, however, the thirst for size and action is strong 
    enough, the acquirers manager will find ample rationalizations 
    for such a value-destroying issuance of stock.  friendly 
    investment bankers will reassure him as to the soundness of his 
    actions. (dont ask the barber whether you need a haircut.)
    
         a few favorite rationalizations employed by stock-issuing 
    managements follow:
    
         (a) the company were buying is going to be worth a lot 
             more in the future. (presumably so is the interest in 
             the old business that is being traded away; future 
             prospects are implicit in the business valuation 
             process.  if 2x is issued for x, the imbalance still 
             exists when both parts double in business value.)
    
         (b) we have to grow. (who, it might be asked, is the we?  
             for present shareholders, the reality is that all 
             existing businesses shrink when shares are issued.  were 
             berkshire to issue shares tomorrow for an acquisition, 
             berkshire would own everything that it now owns plus the 
             new business, but _your_ interest in such hard-to-match 
             businesses as sees candy shops, national indemnity, 
             etc. would automatically be reduced.  if (1) your family 
             owns a 120-acre farm and (2)  you invite a neighbor with 
             60 acres of comparable land to merge his farm into an 
             equal partnership - with you to be managing partner, 
             then (3) your managerial domain will have grown to 180 
             acres but you will have permanently shrunk by 25% your 
             familys ownership interest in both acreage and crops.  
             managers who want to expand their domain at the expense 
             of owners might better consider a career in government.)
    
         (c) our stock is undervalued and weve minimized its use in 
             this deal - but we need to give the selling shareholders 
             51% in stock and 49% in cash so that certain of those 
             shareholders can get the tax-free exchange they want. 
             (this argument acknowledges that it is beneficial to the 
             acquirer to hold down the issuance of shares, and we like 
             that.  but if it hurts the old owners to utilize shares 
             on a 100% basis, it very likely hurts on a 51% basis.  
             after all, a man is not charmed if a spaniel defaces his 
             lawn, just because its a spaniel and not a st. bernard.  
             and the wishes of sellers cant be the determinant of the 
             best interests of the buyer - what would happen if, 
             heaven forbid, the seller insisted that as a condition of 
             merger the ceo of the acquirer be replaced?)
    
         there are three ways to avoid destruction of value for old 
    owners when shares are issued for acquisitions.  one is to have a 
    true business-value-for-business-value merger, such as the 
    berkshire-blue chip combination is intended to be.  such a merger 
    attempts to be fair to shareholders of _both_ parties, with each 
    receiving just as much as it gives in terms of intrinsic business 
    value.  the dart industries-kraft and nabisco standard brands 
    mergers appeared to be of this type, but they are the exceptions.  
    its not that acquirers wish to avoid such deals; its just that 
    they are very hard to do.
    
         the second route presents itself when the acquirers stock 
    sells at or above its intrinsic business value.  in that 
    situation, the use of stock as currency actually may enhance the 
    wealth of the acquiring companys owners.  many mergers were 
    accomplished on this basis in the 1965-69 period.  the results 
    were the converse of most of the activity since 1970: the 
    shareholders of the _acquired_ company received very inflated 
    currency (frequently pumped up by dubious accounting and 
    promotional techniques) and were the losers of wealth through 
    such transactions.
    
         during recent years the second solution has been available 
    to very few large companies.  the exceptions have primarily been 
    those companies in glamorous or promotional businesses to which 
    the market temporarily attaches valuations at or above intrinsic 
    business valuation.
    
         the third solution is for the acquirer to go ahead with the 
    acquisition, but then subsequently repurchase a quantity of 
    shares equal to the number issued in the merger.  in this manner, 
    what originally was a stock-for-stock merger can be converted, 
    effectively, into a cash-for-stock acquisition.  repurchases of 
    this kind are damage-repair moves.  regular readers will 
    correctly guess that we much prefer repurchases that directly 
    enhance the wealth of owners instead of repurchases that merely 
    repair previous damage.  scoring touchdowns is more exhilarating 
    than recovering ones fumbles.  but, when a fumble has occurred, 
    recovery is important and we heartily recommend damage-repair 
    repurchases that turn a bad stock deal into a fair cash deal.
    
         the language utilized in mergers tends to confuse the issues 
    and encourage irrational actions by managers.  for example, 
    dilution is usually carefully calculated on a pro forma basis 
    for both book value and current earnings per share.  particular 
    emphasis is given to the latter item.  when that calculation is 
    negative (dilutive) from the acquiring companys standpoint, a 
    justifying explanation will be made (internally, if not 
    elsewhere) that the lines will cross favorably at some point in 
    the future. (while deals often fail in practice, they never fail 
    in projections - if the ceo is visibly panting over a prospective 
    acquisition, subordinates and consultants will supply the 
    requisite projections to rationalize any price.) should the 
    calculation produce numbers that are immediately positive - that 
    is, anti-dilutive - for the acquirer, no comment is thought to be 
    necessary.
    
         the attention given this form of dilution is overdone: 
    current earnings per share (or even earnings per share of the 
    next few years) are an important variable in most business 
    valuations, but far from all powerful.
    
         there have been plenty of mergers, non-dilutive in this 
    limited sense, that were instantly value destroying for the 
    acquirer.  and some mergers that have diluted current and near-
    term earnings per share have in fact been value-enhancing.  what 
    really counts is whether a merger is dilutive or anti-dilutive in 
    terms of intrinsic business value (a judgment involving 
    consideration of many variables).  we believe calculation of 
    dilution from this viewpoint to be all-important (and too seldom 
    made).
    
         a second language problem relates to the equation of 
    exchange.  if company a announces that it will issue shares to 
    merge with company b, the process is customarily described as 
    company a to acquire company b, or b sells to a.  clearer 
    thinking about the matter would result if a more awkward but more 
    accurate description were used: part of a sold to acquire b, or 
    owners of b to receive part of a in exchange for their 
    properties.  in a trade, what you are giving is just as 
    important as what you are getting.  this remains true even when 
    the final tally on what is being given is delayed.  subsequent 
    sales of common stock or convertible issues, either to complete 
    the financing for a deal or to restore balance sheet strength, 
    must be fully counted in evaluating the fundamental mathematics 
    of the original acquisition. (if corporate pregnancy is going to 
    be the consequence of corporate mating, the time to face that 
    fact is before the moment of ecstasy.)
    
         managers and directors might sharpen their thinking by 
    asking themselves if they would sell 100% of their business on 
    the same basis they are being asked to sell part of it.  and if 
    it isnt smart to sell all on such a basis, they should ask 
    themselves why it is smart to sell a portion.  a cumulation of 
    small managerial stupidities will produce a major stupidity - not 
    a major triumph. (las vegas has been built upon the wealth 
    transfers that occur when people engage in seemingly-small 
    disadvantageous capital transactions.)
    
         the giving versus getting factor can most easily be 
    calculated in the case of registered investment companies.  
    assume investment company x, selling at 50% of asset value, 
    wishes to merge with investment company y.  assume, also, that 
    company x therefore decides to issue shares equal in market value 
    to 100% of ys asset value.
    
         such a share exchange would leave x trading $2 of its 
    previous intrinsic value for $1 of ys intrinsic value.  protests 
    would promptly come forth from both xs shareholders and the sec, 
    which rules on the fairness of registered investment company 
    mergers.  such a transaction simply would not be allowed.
    
         in the case of manufacturing, service, financial companies, 
    etc., values are not normally as precisely calculable as in the 
    case of investment companies.  but we have seen mergers in these 
    industries that just as dramatically destroyed value for the 
    owners of the acquiring company as was the case in the 
    hypothetical illustration above.  this destruction could not 
    happen if management and directors would assess the fairness of 
    any transaction by using the same yardstick in the measurement of 
    both businesses.
    
         finally, a word should be said about the double whammy 
    effect upon owners of the acquiring company when value-diluting 
    stock issuances occur.  under such circumstances, the first blow 
    is the loss of intrinsic business value that occurs through the 
    merger itself.  the second is the downward revision in market 
    valuation that, quite rationally, is given to that now-diluted 
    business value.  for current and prospective owners 
    understandably will not pay as much for assets lodged in the 
    hands of a management that has a record of wealth-destruction 
    through unintelligent share issuances as they will pay for assets 
    entrusted to a management with precisely equal operating talents, 
    but a known distaste for anti-owner actions.  once management 
    shows itself insensitive to the interests of owners, shareholders 
    will suffer a long time from the price/value ratio afforded their 
    stock (relative to other stocks), no matter what assurances 
    management gives that the value-diluting action taken was a one-
    of-a-kind event.
    
         those assurances are treated by the market much as one-bug-
    in-the-salad explanations are treated at restaurants.  such 
    explanations, even when accompanied by a new waiter, do not 
    eliminate a drop in the demand (and hence market value) for 
    salads, both on the part of the offended customer and his 
    neighbors pondering what to order.  other things being equal, the 
    highest stock market prices relative to intrinsic business value 
    are given to companies whose managers have demonstrated their 
    unwillingness to issue shares at any time on terms unfavorable to 
    the owners of the business.
    
         at berkshire, or any company whose policies we determine 
    (including blue chip and wesco), we will issue shares only if our 
    owners receive in business value as much as we give.  we will not 
    equate activity with progress or corporate size with owner-
    wealth.
    
    
    _miscellaneous_
    
         this annual report is read by a varied audience, and it is 
    possible that some members of that audience may be helpful to us 
    in our acquisition program.
    
         we prefer:
    
            (1) large purchases (at least $5 million of after-tax 
                earnings),
    
            (2) demonstrated consistent earning power (future 
                projections are of little interest to us, nor are 
                turn-around situations),
    
            (3) businesses earning good returns on equity while 
                employing little or no debt,
    
            (4) management in place (we cant supply it),
    
            (5) simple businesses (if theres lots of technology, we 
                wont understand it),
    
            (6) an offering price (we dont want to waste our time or 
                that of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, 
                about a transaction when price is unknown).
    
         we will not engage in unfriendly transactions.  we can 
    promise complete confidentiality and a very fast answer as to 
    possible interest - customarily within five minutes.  cash 
    purchases are preferred, but we will consider the use of stock 
    when it can be done on the basis described in the previous 
    section.
    
                             *  *  *  *  *
    
         our shareholder-designated contributions program met with 
    enthusiasm again this year; 95.8% of eligible shares 
    participated.  this response was particularly encouraging since 
    only $1 per share was made available for designation, down from 
    $2 in 1981.  if the merger with blue chip takes place, a probable 
    by-product will be the attainment of a consolidated tax position 
    that will significantly enlarge our contribution base and give us 
    a potential for designating bigger per-share amounts in the 
    future.
    _
         if you wish to participate in future programs, we strongly 
    urge that you immediately make sure that your shares are 
    registered in the actual owners name, not a street or nominee 
    name._  for new shareholders, a more complete description of the 
    program is on pages 62-63.
    
                             *  *  *  *  *
    
         in a characteristically rash move, we have expanded world 
    headquarters by 252 square feet (17%), coincidental with the 
    signing of a new five-year lease at 1440 kiewit plaza.  the five 
    people who work here with me - joan atherton, mike goldberg, 
    gladys kaiser, verne mckenzie and bill scott - outproduce 
    corporate groups many times their number.  a compact organization 
    lets all of us spend our time managing the business rather than 
    managing each other.
    
         charlie munger, my partner in management, will continue to 
    operate from los angeles whether or not the blue chip merger 
    occurs.  charlie and i are interchangeable in business decisions.  
    distance impedes us not at all: weve always found a telephone 
    call to be more productive than a half-day committee meeting.
    
                             *  *  *  *  *
    
         two of our managerial stars retired this year: phil liesche 
    at 65 from national indemnity company, and ben rosner at 79 from 
    associated retail stores.  both of these men made you, as 
    shareholders of berkshire, a good bit wealthier than you 
    otherwise would have been.  national indemnity has been the most 
    important operation in berkshires growth.  phil and jack 
    ringwalt, his predecessor, were the two prime movers in national 
    indemnitys success.  ben rosner sold associated retail stores to 
    diversified retailing company for cash in 1967, promised to stay 
    on only until the end of the year, and then hit business home 
    runs for us for the next fifteen years.
    
         both ben and phil ran their businesses for berkshire with 
    every bit of the care and drive that they would have exhibited 
    had they personally owned 100% of these businesses.  no rules 
    were necessary to enforce or even encourage this attitude; it was 
    embedded in the character of these men long before we came on the 
    scene.  their good character became our good fortune.  if we can 
    continue to attract managers with the qualities of ben and phil, 
    you need not worry about berkshires future.
    
    
                                              warren e. buffett
                                              chairman of the board
    

