**berkshire hathaway inc.**
    
    
    
    
    
    **to the shareholders of berkshire hathaway inc.:**
    
         this past year our registered shareholders increased from 
    about 1900 to about 2900.  most of this growth resulted from our 
    merger with blue chip stamps, but there also was an acceleration 
    in the pace of natural increase that has raised us from the 
    1000 level a few years ago.
    
         with so many new shareholders, its appropriate to summarize 
    the major business principles we follow that pertain to the 
    manager-owner relationship:
    
       **o** although our form is corporate, our attitude is 
    partnership.  charlie munger and i think of our shareholders as 
    owner-partners, and of ourselves as managing partners.  (because 
    of the size of our shareholdings we also are, for better or 
    worse, controlling partners.) we do not view the company itself 
    as the ultimate owner of our business assets but, instead, view 
    the company as a conduit through which our shareholders own the 
    assets.
    
       **o** in line with this owner-orientation, our directors are all 
    major shareholders of berkshire hathaway.  in the case of at 
    least four of the five, over 50% of family net worth is 
    represented by holdings of berkshire.  we eat our own cooking.
    
       **o** our long-term economic goal (subject to some qualifications 
    mentioned later) is to maximize the average annual rate of gain 
    in intrinsic business value on a per-share basis.  we do not 
    measure the economic significance or performance of berkshire by 
    its size; we measure by per-share progress.  we are certain that 
    the rate of per-share progress will diminish in the future - a 
    greatly enlarged capital base will see to that.  but we will be 
    disappointed if our rate does not exceed that of the average 
    large american corporation.
    
       **o** our preference would be to reach this goal by directly 
    owning a diversified group of businesses that generate cash and 
    consistently earn above-average returns on capital.  our second 
    choice is to own parts of similar businesses, attained primarily 
    through purchases of marketable common stocks by our insurance 
    subsidiaries.  the price and availability of businesses and the 
    need for insurance capital determine any given years capital 
    allocation.
    
       **o** because of this two-pronged approach to business ownership 
    and because of the limitations of conventional accounting, 
    consolidated reported earnings may reveal relatively little about 
    our true economic performance.  charlie and i, both as owners and 
    managers, virtually ignore such consolidated numbers.  however, 
    we will also report to you the earnings of each major business we 
    control, numbers we consider of great importance.  these figures, 
    along with other information we will supply about the individual 
    businesses, should generally aid you in making judgments about 
    them.
    
       **o** accounting consequences do not influence our operating or 
    capital-allocation decisions.  when acquisition costs are 
    similar, we much prefer to purchase $2 of earnings that is not 
    reportable by us under standard accounting principles than to 
    purchase $1 of earnings that is reportable.  this is precisely 
    the choice that often faces us since entire businesses (whose 
    earnings will be fully reportable) frequently sell for double the 
    pro-rata price of small portions (whose earnings will be largely 
    unreportable).  in aggregate and over time, we expect the 
    unreported earnings to be fully reflected in our intrinsic 
    business value through capital gains.
    
       **o** we rarely use much debt and, when we do, we attempt to 
    structure it on a long-term fixed rate basis.  we will reject 
    interesting opportunities rather than over-leverage our balance 
    sheet.  this conservatism has penalized our results but it is the 
    only behavior that leaves us comfortable, considering our 
    fiduciary obligations to policyholders, depositors, lenders and 
    the many equity holders who have committed unusually large 
    portions of their net worth to our care.
    
       **o** a managerial wish list will not be filled at shareholder 
    expense.  we will not diversify by purchasing entire businesses 
    at control prices that ignore long-term economic consequences to 
    our shareholders.  we will only do with your money what we would 
    do with our own, weighing fully the values you can obtain by 
    diversifying your own portfolios through direct purchases in the 
    stock market.
    
       **o** we feel noble intentions should be checked periodically 
    against results.  we test the wisdom of retaining earnings by 
    assessing whether retention, over time, delivers shareholders at 
    least $1 of market value for each $1 retained.  to date, this 
    test has been met.  we will continue to apply it on a five-year 
    rolling basis.  as our net worth grows, it is more difficult to 
    use retained earnings wisely.
    
       **o** we will issue common stock only when we receive as much in 
    business value as we give.  this rule applies to all forms of 
    issuance - not only mergers or public stock offerings, but stock 
    for-debt swaps, stock options, and convertible securities as 
    well.  we will not sell small portions of your company - and that 
    is what the issuance of shares amounts to - on a basis 
    inconsistent with the value of the entire enterprise.
    
       **o** you should be fully aware of one attitude charlie and i 
    share that hurts our financial performance: regardless of price, 
    we have no interest at all in selling any good businesses that 
    berkshire owns, and are very reluctant to sell sub-par businesses 
    as long as we expect them to generate at least some cash and as 
    long as we feel good about their managers and labor relations.  
    we hope not to repeat the capital-allocation mistakes that led us 
    into such sub-par businesses.  and we react with great caution to 
    suggestions that our poor businesses can be restored to 
    satisfactory profitability by major capital expenditures.  (the 
    projections will be dazzling - the advocates will be sincere - 
    but, in the end, major additional investment in a terrible 
    industry usually is about as rewarding as struggling in 
    quicksand.) nevertheless, gin rummy managerial behavior (discard 
    your least promising business at each turn) is not our style.  we 
    would rather have our overall results penalized a bit than engage 
    in it.
    
       **o** we will be candid in our reporting to you, emphasizing the 
    pluses and minuses important in appraising business value.  our 
    guideline is to tell you the business facts that we would want to 
    know if our positions were reversed.  we owe you no less.  
    moreover, as a company with a major communications business, it 
    would be inexcusable for us to apply lesser standards of 
    accuracy, balance and incisiveness when reporting on ourselves 
    than we would expect our news people to apply when reporting on 
    others.  we also believe candor benefits us as managers: the ceo 
    who misleads others in public may eventually mislead himself in 
    private.
    
       **o** despite our policy of candor, we will discuss our 
    activities in marketable securities only to the extent legally 
    required.  good investment ideas are rare, valuable and subject 
    to competitive appropriation just as good product or business 
    acquisition ideas are.  therefore, we normally will not talk 
    about our investment ideas.  this ban extends even to securities 
    we have sold (because we may purchase them again) and to stocks 
    we are incorrectly rumored to be buying.  if we deny those 
    reports but say no comment on other occasions, the no-comments 
    become confirmation.
    
         that completes the catechism, and we can now move on to the 
    high point of 1983 - the acquisition of a majority interest in 
    nebraska furniture mart and our association with rose blumkin and 
    her family.
    
    **nebraska furniture mart**
    
         last year, in discussing how managers with bright, but 
    adrenalin-soaked minds scramble after foolish acquisitions, i 
    quoted pascal: it has struck me that all the misfortunes of men 
    spring from the single cause that they are unable to stay quietly 
    in one room.
    
         even pascal would have left the room for mrs. blumkin.
    
         about 67 years ago mrs. blumkin, then 23, talked her way 
    past a border guard to leave russia for america.  she had no 
    formal education, not even at the grammar school level, and knew 
    no english.  after some years in this country, she learned the 
    language when her older daughter taught her, every evening, the 
    words she had learned in school during the day.
    
         in 1937, after many years of selling used clothing, mrs.  
    blumkin had saved $500 with which to realize her dream of opening 
    a furniture store.  upon seeing the american furniture mart in 
    chicago - then the center of the nations wholesale furniture 
    activity - she decided to christen her dream nebraska furniture 
    mart.
    
         she met every obstacle you would expect (and a few you 
    wouldnt) when a business endowed with only $500 and no 
    locational or product advantage goes up against rich, long-
    entrenched competition.  at one early point, when her tiny 
    resources ran out, mrs.  b (a personal trademark now as well 
    recognized in greater omaha as coca-cola or sanka) coped in a way 
    not taught at business schools: she simply sold the furniture and 
    appliances from her home in order to pay creditors precisely as 
    promised.
    
         omaha retailers began to recognize that mrs. b would offer 
    customers far better deals than they had been giving, and they 
    pressured furniture and carpet manufacturers not to sell to her.  
    but by various strategies she obtained merchandise and cut prices 
    sharply.  mrs. b was then hauled into court for violation of fair 
    trade laws.  she not only won all the cases, but received 
    invaluable publicity.  at the end of one case, after 
    demonstrating to the court that she could profitably sell carpet 
    at a huge discount from the prevailing price, she sold the judge 
    $1400 worth of carpet.
    
         today nebraska furniture mart generates over $100 million of 
    sales annually out of one 200,000 square-foot store.  no other 
    home furnishings store in the country comes close to that volume.  
    that single store also sells more furniture, carpets, and 
    appliances than do all omaha competitors combined.
    
         one question i always ask myself in appraising a business is 
    how i would like, assuming i had ample capital and skilled 
    personnel, to compete with it.  id rather wrestle grizzlies than 
    compete with mrs. b and her progeny.  they buy brilliantly, they 
    operate at expense ratios competitors dont even dream about, and 
    they then pass on to their customers much of the savings.  its 
    the ideal business - one built upon exceptional value to the 
    customer that in turn translates into exceptional economics for 
    its owners.
    
         mrs. b is wise as well as smart and, for far-sighted family 
    reasons, was willing to sell the business last year.  i had 
    admired both the family and the business for decades, and a deal 
    was quickly made.  but mrs. b, now 90, is not one to go home and 
    risk, as she puts it, losing her marbles.  she remains chairman 
    and is on the sales floor seven days a week.  carpet sales are 
    her specialty.  she personally sells quantities that would be a 
    good departmental total for other carpet retailers.
    
         we purchased 90% of the business - leaving 10% with members 
    of the family who are involved in management - and have optioned 
    10% to certain key young family managers.
    
         and what managers they are.  geneticists should do 
    handsprings over the blumkin family.  louie blumkin, mrs.  bs 
    son, has been president of nebraska furniture mart for many years 
    and is widely regarded as the shrewdest buyer of furniture and 
    appliances in the country.  louie says he had the best teacher, 
    and mrs. b says she had the best student.  theyre both right.  
    louie and his three sons all have the blumkin business ability, 
    work ethic, and, most important, character.  on top of that, they 
    are really nice people.  we are delighted to be in partnership 
    with them.
    
    **corporate performance**
    
         during 1983 our book value increased from $737.43 per share 
    to $975.83 per share, or by 32%.  we never take the one-year 
    figure very seriously.  after all, why should the time required 
    for a planet to circle the sun synchronize precisely with the 
    time required for business actions to pay off?  instead, we 
    recommend not less than a five-year test as a rough yardstick of 
    economic performance.  red lights should start flashing if the 
    five-year average annual gain falls much below the return on 
    equity earned over the period by american industry in aggregate. 
    (watch out for our explanation if that occurs as goethe observed, 
    when ideas fail, words come in very handy.)
    
         during the 19-year tenure of present management, book value 
    has grown from $19.46 per share to $975.83, or 22.6% compounded 
    annually.  considering our present size, nothing close to this 
    rate of return can be sustained.  those who believe otherwise 
    should pursue a career in sales, but avoid one in mathematics.
    
         we report our progress in terms of book value because in our 
    case (though not, by any means, in all cases) it is a 
    conservative but reasonably adequate proxy for growth in 
    intrinsic business value - _the measurement that really counts._  
    book values virtue as a score-keeping measure is that it is easy 
    to calculate and doesnt involve the subjective (but important) 
    judgments employed in calculation of intrinsic business value.  
    it is important to understand, however, that the two terms - book 
    value and intrinsic business value - have very different 
    meanings.
    
         book value is an accounting concept, recording the 
    accumulated financial input from both contributed capital and 
    retained earnings.  intrinsic business value is an economic 
    concept, estimating future cash output discounted to present 
    value.  book value tells you what has been put in; intrinsic 
    business value estimates what can be taken out.
    
         an analogy will suggest the difference.  assume you spend 
    identical amounts putting each of two children through college.  
    the book value (measured by financial input) of each childs 
    education would be the same.  but the present value of the future 
    payoff (the intrinsic business value) might vary enormously - 
    from zero to many times the cost of the education.  so, also, do 
    businesses having equal financial input end up with wide 
    variations in value.
    
         at berkshire, at the beginning of fiscal 1965 when the 
    present management took over, the $19.46 per share book value 
    considerably overstated intrinsic business value.  all of that 
    book value consisted of textile assets that could not earn, on 
    average, anything close to an appropriate rate of return.  in the 
    terms of our analogy, the investment in textile assets resembled 
    investment in a largely-wasted education.
    
         now, however, our intrinsic business value considerably 
    exceeds book value.  there are two major reasons:
    
         (1) standard accounting principles require that common 
             stocks held by our insurance subsidiaries be stated on 
             our books at market value, but that other stocks we own 
             be carried at the lower of aggregate cost or market.  
             at the end of 1983, the market value of this latter 
             group exceeded carrying value by $70 million pre-tax, 
             or about $50 million after tax.  this excess belongs in 
             our intrinsic business value, but is not included in 
             the calculation of book value;
    
         (2) more important, we own several businesses that possess 
             economic goodwill (which is properly includable in 
             intrinsic business value) far larger than the 
             accounting goodwill that is carried on our balance 
             sheet and reflected in book value.
    
         goodwill, both economic and accounting, is an arcane subject 
    and requires more explanation than is appropriate here.  the 
    appendix that follows this letter - goodwill and its 
    amortization: the rules and the realities - explains why 
    economic and accounting goodwill can, and usually do, differ 
    enormously.
    
         you can live a full and rewarding life without ever thinking 
    about goodwill and its amortization.  but students of investment 
    and management should understand the nuances of the subject.  my 
    own thinking has changed drastically from 35 years ago when i was 
    taught to favor tangible assets and to shun businesses whose 
    value depended largely upon economic goodwill.  this bias caused 
    me to make many important business mistakes of omission, although 
    relatively few of commission.
    
         keynes identified my problem: the difficulty lies not in 
    the new ideas but in escaping from the old ones. my escape was 
    long delayed, in part because most of what i had been taught by 
    the same teacher had been (and continues to be) so 
    extraordinarily valuable.  ultimately, business experience, 
    direct and vicarious, produced my present strong preference for 
    businesses that possess large amounts of enduring goodwill and 
    that utilize a minimum of tangible assets.
    
         i recommend the appendix to those who are comfortable with 
    accounting terminology and who have an interest in understanding 
    the business aspects of goodwill.  whether or not you wish to 
    tackle the appendix, you should be aware that charlie and i 
    believe that berkshire possesses very significant economic 
    goodwill value above that reflected in our book value.
    
    **sources of reported earnings**
    
         the table below shows the sources of berkshires reported 
    earnings.  in 1982, berkshire owned about 60% of blue chip stamps 
    whereas, in 1983, our ownership was 60% throughout the first six 
    months and 100% thereafter.  in turn, berkshires net interest in 
    wesco was 48% during 1982 and the first six months of 1983, and 
    80% for the balance of 1983.  because of these changed ownership 
    percentages, the first two columns of the table provide the best 
    measure of underlying business performance.
    
         all of the significant gains and losses attributable to 
    unusual sales of assets by any of the business entities are 
    aggregated with securities transactions on the line near the 
    bottom of the table, and are not included in operating earnings. 
    (we regard any annual figure for realized capital gains or losses 
    as meaningless, but we regard the aggregate realized and 
    unrealized capital gains over a period of years as very 
    important.) furthermore, amortization of goodwill is not charged 
    against the specific businesses but, for reasons outlined in the 
    appendix, is set forth as a separate item.
    _
                                                                             net earnings
                                       earnings before income taxes            after tax
                                  --------------------------------------  ------------------
                                        total          berkshire share     berkshire share
                                  ------------------  ------------------  ------------------
                                    1983      1982      1983      1982      1983      1982
                                  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
                                                        (000s omitted)_
    operating earnings:
      insurance group:
        underwriting ............ $(33,872) $(21,558) $(33,872) $(21,558) $(18,400) $(11,345)
        net investment income ...   43,810    41,620    43,810    41,620    39,114    35,270
      berkshire-waumbec textiles      (100)   (1,545)     (100)   (1,545)      (63)     (862)
      associated retail stores ..      697       914       697       914       355       446
      nebraska furniture mart(1)     3,812      --       3,049      --       1,521      --
      sees candies .............   27,411    23,884    24,526    14,235    12,212     6,914
      buffalo evening news ......   19,352    (1,215)   16,547      (724)    8,832      (226)
      blue chip stamps(2) .......   (1,422)    4,182    (1,876)    2,492      (353)    2,472
      wesco financial - parent ..    7,493     6,156     4,844     2,937     3,448     2,210
      mutual savings and loan ...     (798)       (6)     (467)       (2)    1,917     1,524
      precision steel ...........    3,241     1,035     2,102       493     1,136       265
      interest on debt ..........  (15,104)  (14,996)  (13,844)  (12,977)   (7,346)   (6,951)
      special geico distribution    21,000      --      21,000      --      19,551      --
      shareholder-designated
         contributions ..........   (3,066)     (891)   (3,066)     (891)   (1,656)     (481)
      amortization of goodwill ..     (532)      151      (563)       90      (563)       90
      other .....................   10,121     3,371     9,623     2,658     8,490     2,171
                                  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
    operating earnings ..........   82,043    41,102    72,410    27,742    68,195    31,497
    sales of securities and
       unusual sales of assets ..   67,260    36,651    65,089    21,875    45,298    14,877
                                  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
    total earnings .............. $149,303  $ 77,753  $137,499  $ 49,617  $113,493  $ 46,374
                                  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========
    
    (1) october through december
    (2) 1982 and 1983 are not comparable; major assets were 
        transferred in the merger.
    
         for a discussion of the businesses owned by wesco, please 
    read charlie mungers report on pages 46-51.  charlie replaced 
    louie vincenti as chairman of wesco late in 1983 when health 
    forced louies retirement at age 77.  in some instances, health 
    is a euphemism, but in louies case nothing but health would 
    cause us to consider his retirement.  louie is a marvelous man 
    and has been a marvelous manager.
    
         the special geico distribution reported in the table arose 
    when that company made a tender offer for a portion of its stock, 
    buying both from us and other shareholders.  at geicos request, 
    we tendered a quantity of shares that kept our ownership 
    percentage the same after the transaction as before.  the 
    proportional nature of our sale permitted us to treat the 
    proceeds as a dividend.  unlike individuals, corporations net 
    considerably more when earnings are derived from dividends rather 
    than from capital gains, since the effective federal income tax 
    rate on dividends is 6.9% versus 28% on capital gains.
    
         even with this special item added in, our total dividends 
    from geico in 1983 were considerably less than our share of 
    geicos earnings.  thus it is perfectly appropriate, from both an 
    accounting and economic standpoint, to include the redemption 
    proceeds in our reported earnings.  it is because the item is 
    large and unusual that we call your attention to it.
    
         the table showing you our sources of earnings includes 
    dividends from those non-controlled companies whose marketable 
    equity securities we own.  but the table does not include 
    earnings those companies have retained that are applicable to our 
    ownership.  in aggregate and over time we expect those 
    undistributed earnings to be reflected in market prices and to 
    increase our intrinsic business value on a dollar-for-dollar 
    basis, just as if those earnings had been under our control and 
    reported as part of our profits.  that does not mean we expect 
    all of our holdings to behave uniformly; some will disappoint us, 
    others will deliver pleasant surprises.  to date our experience 
    has been better than we originally anticipated, in aggregate, we 
    have received far more than a dollar of market value gain for 
    every dollar of earnings retained.
    
         the following table shows our 1983 yearend net holdings in 
    marketable equities.  all numbers represent 100% of berkshires 
    holdings, and 80% of wescos holdings.  the portion attributable 
    to minority shareholders of wesco has been excluded.
    _
    no. of shares                                        cost        market
    -------------                                     ----------   ----------
                                                          (000s omitted)_
        690,975    affiliated publications, inc. ....  $  3,516     $  26,603
      4,451,544    general foods corporation(a) .....   163,786       228,698
      6,850,000    geico corporation ................    47,138       398,156
      2,379,200    handy & harman ...................    27,318        42,231
        636,310    interpublic group of companies, inc.   4,056        33,088
        197,200    media general ....................     3,191        11,191
        250,400    ogilvy & mather international ....     2,580        12,833
      5,618,661    r. j. reynolds industries, inc.(a)   268,918       341,334
        901,788    time, inc. .......................    27,732        56,860
      1,868,600    the washington post company ......    10,628       136,875
                                                      ----------   ----------
                                                       $558,863    $1,287,869
                   all other common stockholdings ...     7,485        18,044
                                                      ----------   ----------
                   total common stocks ..............  $566,348    $1,305,913
                                                      ==========   ==========
    
    (a) wesco owns shares in these companies.
    
         based upon present holdings and present dividend rates - 
    excluding any special items such as the geico proportional 
    redemption last year - we would expect reported dividends from 
    this group to be approximately $39 million in 1984.  we can also 
    make a very rough guess about the earnings this group will retain 
    that will be attributable to our ownership: these may total about 
    $65 million for the year.  these retained earnings could well 
    have no immediate effect on market prices of the securities.  
    over time, however, we feel they will have real meaning.
    
         in addition to the figures already supplied, information 
    regarding the businesses we control appears in managements 
    discussion on pages 40-44.  the most significant of these are 
    buffalo evening news, sees, and the insurance group, to which we 
    will give some special attention here.
    
    **buffalo evening news**
    
         first, a clarification: our corporate name is buffalo 
    evening news, inc. but the name of the newspaper, since we began 
    a morning edition a little over a year ago, is buffalo news.
    
         in 1983 the news somewhat exceeded its targeted profit 
    margin of 10% after tax.  two factors were responsible: (1) a 
    state income tax cost that was subnormal because of a large loss 
    carry-forward, now fully utilized, and (2) a large drop in the 
    per-ton cost of newsprint (an unanticipated fluke that will be 
    reversed in 1984).
    
         although our profit margins in 1983 were about average for 
    newspapers such as the news, the papers performance, 
    nevertheless, was a significant achievement considering the 
    economic and retailing environment in buffalo.
    
         buffalo has a concentration of heavy industry, a segment of 
    the economy that was hit particularly hard by the recent 
    recession and that has lagged the recovery.  as buffalo consumers 
    have suffered, so also have the papers retailing customers.  
    their numbers have shrunk over the past few years and many of 
    those surviving have cut their linage.
    
         within this environment the news has one exceptional 
    strength: its acceptance by the public, a matter measured by the 
    papers penetration ratio - the percentage of households within 
    the community purchasing the paper each day.  our ratio is 
    superb: for the six months ended september 30, 1983 the news 
    stood number one in weekday penetration among the 100 largest 
    papers in the united states (the ranking is based on city zone 
    numbers compiled by the audit bureau of circulations).
    
         in interpreting the standings, it is important to note that 
    many large cities have two papers, and that in such cases the 
    penetration of either paper is necessarily lower than if there 
    were a single paper, as in buffalo.  nevertheless, the list of 
    the 100 largest papers includes many that have a city to 
    themselves.  among these, the news is at the top nationally, far 
    ahead of many of the countrys best-known dailies.
    
         among sunday editions of these same large dailies, the news 
    ranks number three in penetration - ten to twenty percentage 
    points ahead of many well-known papers.  it was not always this 
    way in buffalo. below we show sunday circulation in buffalo in 
    the years prior to 1977 compared with the present period.  in 
    that earlier period the sunday paper was the courier-express (the 
    news was not then publishing a sunday paper).  now, of course, it 
    is the news.
    _
                      average sunday circulation
                      --------------------------
                   year                    circulation_
                   ----                    -----------
                   1970                      314,000
                   1971                      306,000
                   1972                      302,000
                   1973                      290,000
                   1974                      278,000
                   1975                      269,000
                   1976                      270,000
    
                   1984 (current)            376,000
    
         we believe a papers penetration ratio to be the best 
    measure of the strength of its franchise.  papers with unusually 
    high penetration in the geographical area that is of prime 
    interest to major local retailers, and with relatively little 
    circulation elsewhere, are exceptionally efficient buys for those 
    retailers.  low-penetration papers have a far less compelling 
    message to present to advertisers.
    
         in our opinion, three factors largely account for the 
    unusual acceptance of the news in the community.  among these, 
    points 2 and 3 also may explain the popularity of the sunday news 
    compared to that of the sunday courier-express when it was the 
    sole sunday paper:
    
         (1) the first point has nothing to do with merits of the 
             news.  both emigration and immigration are relatively 
             low in buffalo.  a stable population is more interested 
             and involved in the activities of its community than is 
             a shifting population - and, as a result, is more 
             interested in the content of the local daily paper.  
             increase the movement in and out of a city and 
             penetration ratios will fall.
    
         (2) the news has a reputation for editorial quality and 
             integrity that was honed by our longtime editor, the 
             legendary alfred kirchhofer, and that has been preserved 
             and extended by murray light.  this reputation was 
             enormously important to our success in establishing a 
             sunday paper against entrenched competition.  and without 
             a sunday edition, the news would not have survived in the 
             long run.
    
         (3) the news lives up to its name - it delivers a very 
             unusual amount of news.  during 1983, our news hole 
             (editorial material - not ads) amounted to 50% of the 
             newspapers content (excluding preprinted inserts).  
             among papers that dominate their markets and that are of 
             comparable or larger size, we know of only one whose news 
             hole percentage exceeds that of the news.  comprehensive 
             figures are not available, but a sampling indicates an 
             average percentage in the high 30s.  in other words, page 
             for page, our mix gives readers over 25% more news than 
             the typical paper.  this news-rich mixture is by intent.  
             some publishers, pushing for higher profit margins, have 
             cut their news holes during the past decade.  we have 
             maintained ours and will continue to do so.  properly 
             written and edited, a full serving of news makes our 
             paper more valuable to the reader and contributes to our 
             unusual penetration ratio.
    
         despite the strength of the news franchise, gains in rop 
    linage (advertising printed within the newspaper pages as 
    contrasted to preprinted inserts) are going to be very difficult 
    to achieve.  we had an enormous gain in preprints during 1983: 
    lines rose from 9.3 million to 16.4 million, revenues from $3.6 
    million to $8.1 million.  these gains are consistent with 
    national trends, but exaggerated in our case by business we 
    picked up when the courier-express closed.
    
         on balance, the shift from rop to preprints has negative 
    economic implications for us.  profitability on preprints is less 
    and the business is more subject to competition from alternative 
    means of delivery.  furthermore, a reduction in rop linage means 
    less absolute space devoted to news (since the news hole 
    percentage remains constant), thereby reducing the utility of the 
    paper to the reader.
    
         stan lipsey became publisher of the buffalo news at midyear 
    upon the retirement of henry urban.  henry never flinched during 
    the dark days of litigation and losses following our introduction 
    of the sunday paper - an introduction whose wisdom was questioned 
    by many in the newspaper business, including some within our own 
    building.  henry is admired by the buffalo business community, 
    hes admired by all who worked for him, and he is admired by 
    charlie and me.  stan worked with henry for several years, and 
    has worked for berkshire hathaway since 1969.  he has been 
    personally involved in all nuts-and-bolts aspects of the 
    newspaper business from editorial to circulation.  we couldnt do 
    better.
    
    **sees candy shops**
    
         the financial results at sees continue to be exceptional.  
    the business possesses a valuable and solid consumer franchise 
    and a manager equally valuable and solid.
    
         in recent years sees has encountered two important 
    problems, at least one of which is well on its way toward 
    solution.  that problem concerns costs, except those for raw 
    materials.  we have enjoyed a break on raw material costs in 
    recent years though so, of course, have our competitors.  one of 
    these days we will get a nasty surprise in the opposite 
    direction.  in effect, raw material costs are largely beyond our 
    control since we will, as a matter of course, buy the finest 
    ingredients that we can, regardless of changes in their price 
    levels.  we regard product quality as sacred.
    
         but other kinds of costs are more controllable, and it is in 
    this area that we have had problems.  on a per-pound basis, our 
    costs (not including those for raw materials) have increased in 
    the last few years at a rate significantly greater than the 
    increase in the general price level.  it is vital to our 
    competitive position and profit potential that we reverse this 
    trend.
    
         in recent months much better control over costs has been 
    attained and we feel certain that our rate of growth in these 
    costs in 1984 will be below the rate of inflation.  this 
    confidence arises out of our long experience with the managerial 
    talents of chuck huggins.  we put chuck in charge the day we took 
    over, and his record has been simply extraordinary, as shown by 
    the following table:
    _
      52-53 week year                     operating     number of    number of
        ended about           sales        profits      pounds of   stores open
        december 31         revenues     after taxes   candy sold   at year end_
    -------------------   ------------   -----------   ----------   -----------
    1983 (53 weeks) ...   $133,531,000   $13,699,000   24,651,000       207
    1982 ..............    123,662,000    11,875,000   24,216,000       202
    1981 ..............    112,578,000    10,779,000   24,052,000       199
    1980 ..............     97,715,000     7,547,000   24,065,000       191
    1979 ..............     87,314,000     6,330,000   23,985,000       188
    1978 ..............     73,653,000     6,178,000   22,407,000       182
    1977 ..............     62,886,000     6,154,000   20,921,000       179
    1976 (53 weeks) ...     56,333,000     5,569,000   20,553,000       173
    1975 ..............     50,492,000     5,132,000   19,134,000       172
    1974 ..............     41,248,000     3,021,000   17,883,000       170
    1973 ..............     35,050,000     1,940,000   17,813,000       169
    1972 ..............     31,337,000     2,083,000   16,954,000       167
    
         the other problem we face, as the table suggests, is our 
    recent inability to achieve meaningful gains in pounds sold.  the 
    industry has the same problem.  but for many years we 
    outperformed the industry in this respect and now we are not.
    
         the poundage volume in our retail stores has been virtually 
    unchanged each year for the past four, despite small increases 
    every year in the number of shops (and in distribution expense as 
    well).  of course, dollar volume has increased because we have 
    raised prices significantly.  but we regard the most important 
    measure of retail trends to be units sold per store rather than 
    dollar volume.  on a same-store basis (counting only shops open 
    throughout both years) with all figures adjusted to a 52-week 
    year, poundage was down .8 of 1% during 1983.  this small decline 
    was our best same-store performance since 1979; the cumulative 
    decline since then has been about 8%.  quantity-order volume, 
    about 25% of our total, has plateaued in recent years following 
    very large poundage gains throughout the 1970s.
    
         we are not sure to what extent this flat volume - both in 
    the retail shop area and the quantity order area - is due to our 
    pricing policies and to what extent it is due to static industry 
    volume, the recession, and the extraordinary share of market we 
    already enjoy in our primary marketing area.  our price increase 
    for 1984 is much more modest than has been the case in the past 
    few years, and we hope that next year we can report better volume 
    figures to you.  but we have no basis to forecast these.
    
         despite the volume problem, sees strengths are many and 
    important.  in our primary marketing area, the west, our candy is 
    preferred by an enormous margin to that of any competitor.  in 
    fact, we believe most lovers of chocolate prefer it to candy 
    costing two or three times as much. (in candy, as in stocks, 
    price and value can differ; price is what you give, value is what 
    you get.) the quality of customer service in our shops - operated 
    throughout the country by us and not by franchisees is every bit 
    as good as the product.  cheerful, helpful personnel are as much 
    a trademark of sees as is the logo on the box.  thats no small 
    achievement in a business that requires us to hire about 2000 
    seasonal workers.  we know of no comparably-sized organization 
    that betters the quality of customer service delivered by chuck 
    huggins and his associates.
    
         because we have raised prices so modestly in 1984, we expect 
    sees profits this year to be about the same as in 1983.  
    
    **insurance - controlled operations**
    
         we both operate insurance companies and have a large 
    economic interest in an insurance business we dont operate, 
    geico.  the results for all can be summed up easily: in 
    aggregate, the companies we operate and whose underwriting 
    results reflect the consequences of decisions that were my 
    responsibility a few years ago, had absolutely terrible results.  
    fortunately, geico, whose policies i do not influence, simply 
    shot the lights out.  the inference you draw from this summary is 
    the correct one.  i made some serious mistakes a few years ago 
    that came home to roost.
    
         the industry had its worst underwriting year in a long time, 
    as indicated by the table below:
    _
                              yearly change      combined ratio
                               in premiums        after policy-
                               written (%)      holder dividends_
                              -------------     ----------------
    1972 ....................     10.2                96.2
    1973 ....................      8.0                99.2
    1974 ....................      6.2               105.4
    1975 ....................     11.0               107.9
    1976 ....................     21.9               102.4
    1977 ....................     19.8                97.2
    1978 ....................     12.8                97.5
    1979 ....................     10.3               100.6
    1980 ....................      6.0               103.1
    1981 ....................      3.9               106.0
    1982 (revised) ..........      4.4               109.7
    1983 (estimated) ........      4.6               111.0
    
    source: bests aggregates and averages.
    
         bests data reflect the experience of practically the entire 
    industry, including stock, mutual, and reciprocal companies.  the 
    combined ratio represents total insurance costs (losses incurred 
    plus expenses) compared to revenue from premiums; a ratio below 
    100 indicates an underwriting profit and one above 100 indicates 
    a loss.
    
         for the reasons outlined in last years report, we expect 
    the poor industry experience of 1983 to be more or less typical 
    for a good many years to come. (as yogi berra put it: it will be 
    deja vu all over again.) that doesnt mean we think the figures 
    wont bounce around a bit; they are certain to.  but we believe 
    it highly unlikely that the combined ratio during the balance of 
    the decade will average significantly below the 1981-1983 level.  
    based on our expectations regarding inflation - _and we are as 
    pessimistic as ever on that front_ - industry premium volume must 
    grow about 10% annually merely to stabilize loss ratios at 
    present levels.
    
         our own combined ratio in 1983 was 121.  since mike goldberg 
    recently took over most of the responsibility for the insurance 
    operation, it would be nice for me if our shortcomings could be 
    placed at his doorstep rather than mine.  but unfortunately, as 
    we have often pointed out, the insurance business has a long 
    lead-time.  though business policies may be changed and personnel 
    improved, a significant period must pass before the effects are 
    seen.  (this characteristic of the business enabled us to make a 
    great deal of money in geico; we could picture what was likely to 
    happen well before it actually occurred.) so the roots of the 
    1983 results are operating and personnel decisions made two or 
    more years back when i had direct managerial responsibility for 
    the insurance group.
    
         despite our poor results overall, several of our managers 
    did truly outstanding jobs.  roland miller guided the auto and 
    general liability business of national indemnity company and 
    national fire and marine insurance company to improved results, 
    while those of competitors deteriorated.  in addition, tom rowley 
    at continental divide insurance - our fledgling colorado 
    homestate company - seems certain to be a winner.  mike found him 
    a little over a year ago, and he was an important acquisition.
    
         we have become active recently - and hope to become much 
    more active - in reinsurance transactions where the buyers 
    overriding concern should be the sellers long-term 
    creditworthiness.  in such transactions our premier financial 
    strength should make us the number one choice of both claimants 
    and insurers who must rely on the reinsurers promises for a 
    great many years to come.
    
         a major source of such business is structured settlements - 
    a procedure for settling losses under which claimants receive 
    periodic payments (almost always monthly, for life) rather than a 
    single lump sum settlement.  this form of settlement has 
    important tax advantages for the claimant and also prevents his 
    squandering a large lump-sum payment.  frequently, some inflation 
    protection is built into the settlement.  usually the claimant 
    has been seriously injured, and thus the periodic payments must 
    be unquestionably secure for decades to come.  we believe we 
    offer unparalleled security.  no other insurer we know of - even 
    those with much larger gross assets - has our financial strength.
    
         we also think our financial strength should recommend us to 
    companies wishing to transfer loss reserves.  in such 
    transactions, other insurance companies pay us lump sums to 
    assume all (or a specified portion of) future loss payments 
    applicable to large blocks of expired business.  here also, the 
    company transferring such claims needs to be certain of the 
    transferees financial strength for many years to come.  again, 
    most of our competitors soliciting such business appear to us to 
    have a financial condition that is materially inferior to ours.
    
         potentially, structured settlements and the assumption of 
    loss reserves could become very significant to us.  because of 
    their potential size and because these operations generate large 
    amounts of investment income compared to premium volume, we will 
    show underwriting results from those businesses on a separate 
    line in our insurance segment data.  we also will exclude their 
    effect in reporting our combined ratio to you.  we front end no 
    profit on structured settlement or loss reserve transactions, and 
    all attributable overhead is expensed currently.  both businesses 
    are run by don wurster at national indemnity company.
    
    **insurance - geico**
    
         geicos performance during 1983 was as good as our own 
    insurance performance was poor.  compared to the industrys 
    combined ratio of 111, geico wrote at 96 _after_ a large voluntary 
    accrual for policyholder dividends.  a few years ago i would not 
    have thought geico could so greatly outperform the industry.  its 
    superiority reflects the combination of a truly exceptional 
    business idea and an exceptional management.
    
         jack byrne and bill snyder have maintained extraordinary 
    discipline in the underwriting area (including, crucially, 
    provision for full and proper loss reserves), and their efforts 
    are now being further rewarded by significant gains in new 
    business.  equally important, lou simpson is the class of the 
    field among insurance investment managers.  the three of them are 
    some team.
    
         we have approximately a one-third interest in geico.  that 
    gives us a $270 million share in the companys premium volume, an 
    amount some 80% larger than our own volume.  thus, the major 
    portion of our total insurance business comes from the best 
    insurance book in the country.  this fact does not moderate by an 
    iota the need for us to improve our own operation.
    
    **stock splits and stock activity**
    
         we often are asked why berkshire does not split its stock.  
    the assumption behind this question usually appears to be that a 
    split would be a pro-shareholder action.  we disagree.  let me 
    tell you why.
    
         one of our goals is to have berkshire hathaway stock sell at 
    a price rationally related to its intrinsic business value.  (but 
    note rationally related, not identical: if well-regarded 
    companies are generally selling in the market at large discounts 
    from value, berkshire might well be priced similarly.) the key to 
    a rational stock price is rational shareholders, both current and 
    prospective.
    
         if the holders of a companys stock and/or the prospective 
    buyers attracted to it are prone to make irrational or emotion-
    based decisions, some pretty silly stock prices are going to 
    appear periodically.  manic-depressive personalities produce 
    manic-depressive valuations.  such aberrations may help us in 
    buying and selling the stocks of other companies.  but we think 
    it is in both your interest and ours to minimize their occurrence 
    in the market for berkshire.
    
         to obtain only high quality shareholders is no cinch.  mrs. 
    astor could select her 400, but anyone can buy any stock.  
    entering members of a shareholder club cannot be screened for 
    intellectual capacity, emotional stability, moral sensitivity or 
    acceptable dress.  shareholder eugenics, therefore, might appear 
    to be a hopeless undertaking.
    
         in large part, however, we feel that high quality ownership 
    can be attracted and maintained if we consistently communicate 
    our business and ownership philosophy - _along with no other 
    conflicting messages_ - and then let self selection follow its 
    course.  for example, self selection will draw a far different 
    crowd to a musical event advertised as an opera than one 
    advertised as a rock concert even though anyone can buy a ticket 
    to either.
    
         through our policies and communications - our 
    advertisements - we try to attract investors who will 
    understand our operations, attitudes and expectations. (and, 
    fully as important, we try to dissuade those who wont.) we want 
    those who think of themselves as business owners and invest in 
    companies with the intention of staying a long time.  and, we 
    want those who keep their eyes focused on business results, not 
    market prices.
    
         investors possessing those characteristics are in a small 
    minority, but we have an exceptional collection of them.  i 
    believe well over 90% - probably over 95% - of our shares are 
    held by those who were shareholders of berkshire or blue chip 
    five years ago.  and i would guess that over 95% of our shares 
    are held by investors for whom the holding is at least double the 
    size of their next largest.  among companies with at least 
    several thousand public shareholders and more than $1 billion of 
    market value, we are almost certainly the leader in the degree to 
    which our shareholders think and act like owners.  upgrading a 
    shareholder group that possesses these characteristics is not 
    easy.
    
         were we to split the stock or take other actions focusing on 
    stock price rather than business value, we would attract an 
    entering class of buyers inferior to the exiting class of 
    sellers.  at $1300, there are very few investors who cant afford 
    a berkshire share.  would a potential one-share purchaser be 
    better off if we split 100 for 1 so he could buy 100 shares?  
    those who think so and who would buy the stock because of the 
    split or in anticipation of one would definitely downgrade the 
    quality of our present shareholder group. (could we really 
    improve our shareholder group by trading some of our present 
    clear-thinking members for impressionable new ones who, 
    preferring paper to value, feel wealthier with nine $10 bills 
    than with one $100 bill?) people who buy for non-value reasons 
    are likely to sell for non-value reasons.  their presence in the 
    picture will accentuate erratic price swings unrelated to 
    underlying business developments.
    
         we will try to avoid policies that attract buyers with a 
    short-term focus on our stock price and try to follow policies 
    that attract informed long-term investors focusing on business 
    values. just as you purchased your berkshire shares in a market 
    populated by rational informed investors, you deserve a chance to 
    sell - should you ever want to - in the same kind of market.  we 
    will work to keep it in existence.
    
         one of the ironies of the stock market is the emphasis on 
    activity.  brokers, using terms such as marketability and 
    liquidity, sing the praises of companies with high share 
    turnover (those who cannot fill your pocket will confidently fill 
    your ear).  but investors should understand that what is good for 
    the croupier is not good for the customer.  a hyperactive stock 
    market is the pickpocket of enterprise.
    
         for example, consider a typical company earning, say, 12% on 
    equity.  assume a very high turnover rate in its shares of 100% 
    per year.  if a purchase and sale of the stock each extract 
    commissions of 1% (the rate may be much higher on low-priced 
    stocks) and if the stock trades at book value, the owners of our 
    hypothetical company will pay, in aggregate, 2% of the companys 
    net worth annually for the privilege of transferring ownership.  
    this activity does nothing for the earnings of the business, and 
    means that 1/6 of them are lost to the owners through the 
    frictional cost of transfer. (and this calculation does not 
    count option trading, which would increase frictional costs still 
    further.)
    
         all that makes for a rather expensive game of musical 
    chairs.  can you imagine the agonized cry that would arise if a 
    governmental unit were to impose a new 16 2/3% tax on earnings of 
    corporations or investors?  by market activity, investors can 
    impose upon themselves the equivalent of such a tax.
    
         days when the market trades 100 million shares (and that 
    kind of volume, when over-the-counter trading is included, is 
    today abnormally low) are a curse for owners, not a blessing - 
    for they mean that owners are paying twice as much to change 
    chairs as they are on a 50-million-share day.  if 100 million-
    share days persist for a year and the average cost on each 
    purchase and sale is 15 cents a share, the chair-changing tax for 
    investors in aggregate would total about $7.5 billion - an amount 
    roughly equal to the combined 1982 profits of exxon, general 
    motors, mobil and texaco, the four largest companies in the 
    fortune 500.
    
         these companies had a combined net worth of $75 billion at 
    yearend 1982 and accounted for over 12% of both net worth and net 
    income of the entire fortune 500 list.  under our assumption 
    investors, in aggregate, every year forfeit all earnings from 
    this staggering sum of capital merely to satisfy their penchant 
    for financial flip-flopping.  in addition, investment 
    management fees of over $2 billion annually - sums paid for 
    chair-changing advice - require the forfeiture by investors of 
    all earnings of the five largest banking organizations (citicorp, 
    bank america, chase manhattan, manufacturers hanover and j. p. 
    morgan).  these expensive activities may decide who eats the pie, 
    but they dont enlarge it.
    
         (we are aware of the pie-expanding argument that says that 
    such activities improve the rationality of the capital allocation 
    process.  we think that this argument is specious and that, on 
    balance, hyperactive equity markets subvert rational capital 
    allocation and act as pie shrinkers.  adam smith felt that all 
    noncollusive acts in a free market were guided by an invisible 
    hand that led an economy to maximum progress; our view is that 
    casino-type markets and hair-trigger investment management act as 
    an invisible foot that trips up and slows down a forward-moving 
    economy.)
    
         contrast the hyperactive stock with berkshire.  the bid-and-
    ask spread in our stock currently is about 30 points, or a little 
    over 2%.  depending on the size of the transaction, the 
    difference between proceeds received by the seller of berkshire 
    and cost to the buyer may range downward from 4% (in trading 
    involving only a few shares) to perhaps 1 1/2% (in large trades 
    where negotiation can reduce both the market-makers spread and 
    the brokers commission).  because most berkshire shares are 
    traded in fairly large transactions, the spread on all trading 
    probably does not average more than 2%.
    
         meanwhile, true turnover in berkshire stock (excluding 
    inter-dealer transactions, gifts and bequests) probably runs 3% 
    per year.  thus our owners, in aggregate, are paying perhaps 
    6/100 of 1% of berkshires market value annually for transfer 
    privileges.  by this very rough estimate, thats $900,000 - not a 
    small cost, but far less than average.  splitting the stock would 
    increase that cost, downgrade the quality of our shareholder 
    population, and encourage a market price less consistently 
    related to intrinsic business value.  we see no offsetting 
    advantages.
    
    **miscellaneous**
    
         last year in this section i ran a small ad to encourage 
    acquisition candidates.  in our communications businesses we tell 
    our advertisers that repetition is a key to results (which it 
    is), so we will again repeat our acquisition criteria.
    
         we prefer:
            (1) large purchases (at least $5 million of after-tax 
                earnings),
            (2) demonstrated consistent earning power (future 
                projections are of little interest to us, nor are 
                turn-around situations),
            (3) businesses earning good returns on equity while 
                employing little or no debt,
            (4) management in place (we cant supply it),
            (5) simple businesses (if theres lots of technology, we 
                wont understand it),
            (6) an offering price (we dont want to waste our time or 
                that of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, 
                about a transaction when price is unknown).
    
         we will not engage in unfriendly takeovers.  we can promise 
    complete confidentiality and a very fast answer - customarily 
    within five minutes - as to whether were interested.  we prefer 
    to buy for cash, but will consider issuance of stock when we 
    receive as much in intrinsic business value as we give.  we 
    invite potential sellers to check us out by contacting people 
    with whom we have done business in the past.  for the right 
    business - and the right people - we can provide a good home.
    
                             *  *  *  *  *
    
         about 96.4% of all eligible shares participated in our 1983 
    shareholder-designated contributions program.  the total 
    contributions made pursuant to this program - disbursed in the 
    early days of 1984 but fully expensed in 1983 - were $3,066,501, 
    and 1353 charities were recipients.  although the response 
    measured by the percentage of shares participating was 
    extraordinarily good, the response measured by the percentage of 
    holders participating was not as good.  the reason may well be 
    the large number of new shareholders acquired through the merger 
    and their lack of familiarity with the program.  we urge new 
    shareholders to read the description of the program on pages 52-
    53.
    
         _if you wish to participate in future programs, we strongly 
    urge that you immediately make sure that your shares are 
    registered in the actual owners name, not in street or nominee 
    name.  shares not so registered on september 28, 1984 will not be 
    eligible for any 1984 program._
    
                             *  *  *  *  *
    
         the blue chip/berkshire merger went off without a hitch.  
    less than one-tenth of 1% of the shares of each company voted 
    against the merger, and no requests for appraisal were made.  in 
    1983, we gained some tax efficiency from the merger and we expect 
    to gain more in the future.
    
         one interesting sidelight to the merger: berkshire now has 
    1,146,909 shares outstanding compared to 1,137,778 shares at the 
    beginning of fiscal 1965, the year present management assumed 
    responsibility.  for every 1% of the company you owned at that 
    time, you now would own .99%. thus, all of todays assets - the 
    news, sees, nebraska furniture mart, the insurance group, $1.3 
    billion in marketable stocks, etc. - have been added to the 
    original textile assets with virtually no net dilution to the 
    original owners.
    
         we are delighted to have the former blue chip shareholders 
    join us.  to aid in your understanding of berkshire hathaway, we 
    will be glad to send you the compendium of letters from the 
    annual reports of 1977-1981, and/or the 1982 annual report.  
    direct your request to the company at 1440 kiewit plaza, omaha, 
    nebraska 68131.
    
    
                                            warren e. buffett
    march 14, 1984                          chairman of the board
    
    

appendix **_

appendix

_

berkshire hathaway inc.



goodwill and its amortization: the rules and the realities

**this appendix deals only with economic and accounting goodwill not the goodwill of everyday usage. for example, a business may be well liked, even loved, by most of its customers but possess no economic goodwill. (at&amp;t, before the breakup, was generally well thought of, but possessed not a dime of economic goodwill.) and, regrettably, a business may be disliked by its customers but possess substantial, and growing, economic goodwill. so, just for the moment, forget emotions and focus only on economics and accounting.

when a business is purchased, accounting principles require that the purchase
price first be assigned to the fair value of the identifiable assets that are
acquired. frequently the sum of the fair values put on the assets (after the
deduction of liabilities) is less than the total purchase price of the
business. in that case, the difference is assigned to an asset account
entitled "excess of cost over equity in net assets acquired". to avoid
constant repetition of this mouthful, we will substitute "goodwill".

accounting goodwill arising from businesses purchased before november 1970 has
a special standing. except under rare circumstances, it can remain an asset on
the balance sheet as long as the business bought is retained. that means no
amortization charges to gradually extinguish that asset need be made against
earnings.

the case is different, however, with purchases made from november 1970 on.
when these create goodwill, it must be amortized over not more than 40 years
through charges of equal amount in every year to the earnings account. since
40 years is the maximum period allowed, 40 years is what managements
(including us) usually elect. this annual charge to earnings is not allowed as
a tax deduction and, thus, has an effect on after-tax income that is roughly
double that of most other expenses.

thats how accounting goodwill works. to see how it differs from economic
reality, lets look at an example close at hand. well round some figures, and
greatly oversimplify, to make the example easier to follow. well also mention
some implications for investors and managers.

blue chip stamps bought sees early in 1972 for $25 million, at which time sees
had about $8 million of net tangible assets. (throughout this discussion,
accounts receivable will be classified as tangible assets, a definition proper
for business analysis.) this level of tangible assets was adequate to conduct
the business without use of debt, except for short periods seasonally. sees
was earning about $2 million after tax at the time, and such earnings seemed
conservatively representative of future earning power in constant 1972
dollars.

thus our first lesson: businesses logically are worth far more than net
tangible assets when they can be expected to produce earnings on such assets
considerably in excess of market rates of return. the capitalized value of
this excess return is economic goodwill.

in 1972 (and now) relatively few businesses could be expected to consistently
earn the 25% after tax on net tangible assets that was earned by sees doing
it, furthermore, with conservative accounting and no financial leverage. it
was not the fair market value of the inventories, receivables or fixed assets
that produced the premium rates of return. rather it was a combination of
intangible assets, particularly a pervasive favorable reputation with
consumers based upon countless pleasant experiences they have had with both
product and personnel.

such a reputation creates a consumer franchise that allows the value of the
product to the purchaser, rather than its production cost, to be the major
determinant of selling price. consumer franchises are a prime source of
economic goodwill. other sources include governmental franchises not subject
to profit regulation, such as television stations, and an enduring position as
the low cost producer in an industry.

lets return to the accounting in the sees example. blue chips purchase of sees
at $17 million over net tangible assets required that a goodwill account of
this amount be established as an asset on blue chips books and that $425,000
be charged to income annually for 40 years to amortize that asset. by 1983,
after 11 years of such charges, the $17 million had been reduced to about
$12.5 million. berkshire, meanwhile, owned 60% of blue chip and, therefore,
also 60% of sees. this ownership meant that berkshires balance sheet reflected
60% of sees goodwill, or about $7.5 million.

in 1983 berkshire acquired the rest of blue chip in a merger that required
purchase accounting as contrasted to the "pooling" treatment allowed for some
mergers. under purchase accounting, the "fair value" of the shares we gave to
(or "paid") blue chip holders had to be spread over the net assets acquired
from blue chip. this "fair value" was measured, as it almost always is when
public companies use their shares to make acquisitions, by the market value of
the shares given up.

the assets "purchased" consisted of 40% of everything owned by blue chip (as
noted, berkshire already owned the other 60%). what berkshire "paid" was more
than the net identifiable assets we received by $51.7 million, and was
assigned to two pieces of goodwill: $28.4 million to sees and $23.3 million to
buffalo evening news.

after the merger, therefore, berkshire was left with a goodwill asset for sees
that had two components: the $7.5 million remaining from the 1971 purchase,
and $28.4 million newly created by the 40% "purchased" in 1983. our
amortization charge now will be about $1.0 million for the next 28 years, and
$.7 million for the following 12 years, 2002 through 2013.

in other words, different purchase dates and prices have given us vastly
different asset values and amortization charges for two pieces of the same
asset. (we repeat our usual disclaimer: we have no better accounting system to
suggest. the problems to be dealt with are mind boggling and require arbitrary
rules.)

but what are the economic realities? one reality is that the amortization
charges that have been deducted as costs in the earnings statement each year
since acquisition of sees were not true economic costs. we know that because
sees last year earned $13 million after taxes on about $20 million of net
tangible assets a performance indicating the existence of economic goodwill
far larger than the total original cost of our accounting goodwill. in other
words, while accounting goodwill regularly decreased from the moment of
purchase, economic goodwill increased in irregular but very substantial
fashion.

another reality is that annual amortization charges in the future will not
correspond to economic costs. it is possible, of course, that sees economic
goodwill will disappear. but it wont shrink in even decrements or anything
remotely resembling them. what is more likely is that the goodwill will
_increase_ in current, if not in constant, dollars because of inflation.

that probability exists because true economic goodwill tends to rise in
nominal value proportionally with inflation. to illustrate how this works,
lets contrast a sees kind of business with a more mundane business. when we
purchased sees in 1972, it will be recalled, it was earning about $2 million
on $8 million of net tangible assets. let us assume that our hypothetical
mundane business then had $2 million of earnings also, but needed $18 million
in net tangible assets for normal operations. earning only 11% on required
tangible assets, that mundane business would possess little or no economic
goodwill.

a business like that, therefore, might well have sold for the value of its net
tangible assets, or for $18 million. in contrast, we paid $25 million for
sees, even though it had no more in earnings and less than half as much in
"honest-to-god" assets. could less really have been more, as our purchase
price implied? the answer is "yes" _even if both businesses were expected to
have flat unit volume_ as long as you anticipated, as we did in 1972, a world
of continuous inflation.

to understand why, imagine the effect that a doubling of the price level would
subsequently have on the two businesses. both would need to double their
nominal earnings to $4 million to keep themselves even with inflation. this
would seem to be no great trick: just sell the same number of units at double
earlier prices and, assuming profit margins remain unchanged, profits also
must double.

but, crucially, to bring that about, both businesses probably would have to
double their nominal investment in net tangible assets, since that is the kind
of economic requirement that inflation usually imposes on businesses, both
good and bad. a doubling of dollar sales means correspondingly more dollars
must be employed immediately in receivables and inventories. dollars employed
in fixed assets will respond more slowly to inflation, but probably just as
surely. and all of this inflation-required investment will produce no
improvement in rate of return. the motivation for this investment is the
survival of the business, not the prosperity of the owner.

remember, however, that sees had net tangible assets of only $8 million. so it
would only have had to commit an additional $8 million to finance the capital
needs imposed by inflation. the mundane business, meanwhile, had a burden over
twice as large a need for $18 million of additional capital.

after the dust had settled, the mundane business, now earning $4 million
annually, might still be worth the value of its tangible assets, or $36
million. that means its owners would have gained only a dollar of nominal
value for every new dollar invested. (this is the same dollar-for-dollar
result they would have achieved if they had added money to a savings account.)

sees, however, also earning $4 million, might be worth $50 million if valued
(as it logically would be) on the same basis as it was at the time of our
purchase. so it would have gained $25 million in nominal value while the
owners were putting up only $8 million in additional capital over $3 of
nominal value gained for each $1 invested.

remember, even so, that the owners of the sees kind of business were forced by
inflation to ante up $8 million in additional capital just to stay even in
real profits. any unleveraged business that requires some net tangible assets
to operate (and almost all do) is hurt by inflation. businesses needing little
in the way of tangible assets simply are hurt the least.

and that fact, of course, has been hard for many people to grasp. for years
the traditional wisdom long on tradition, short on wisdom held that inflation
protection was best provided by businesses laden with natural resources,
plants and machinery, or other tangible assets ("in goods we trust"). it
doesnt work that way. asset-heavy businesses generally earn low rates of
return rates that often barely provide enough capital to fund the inflationary
needs of the existing business, with nothing left over for real growth, for
distribution to owners, or for acquisition of new businesses.

in contrast, a disproportionate number of the great business fortunes built up
during the inflationary years arose from ownership of operations that combined
intangibles of lasting value with relatively minor requirements for tangible
assets. in such cases earnings have bounded upward in nominal dollars, and
these dollars have been largely available for the acquisition of additional
businesses. this phenomenon has been particularly evident in the
communications business. that business has required little in the way of
tangible investment yet its franchises have endured. during inflation,
goodwill is the gift that keeps giving.

but that statement applies, naturally, only to true economic goodwill.
spurious accounting goodwill and there is plenty of it around is another
matter. when an overexcited management purchases a business at a silly price,
the same accounting niceties described earlier are observed. because it cant
go anywhere else, the silliness ends up in the goodwill account. considering
the lack of managerial discipline that created the account, under such
circumstances it might better be labeled "no-will". whatever the term, the
40-year ritual typically is observed and the adrenalin so capitalized remains
on the books as an "asset" just as if the acquisition had been a sensible one.

* * * * * 

if you cling to any belief that accounting treatment of goodwill is the best
measure of economic reality, i suggest one final item to ponder.

assume a company with $20 per share of net worth, all tangible assets. further
assume the company has internally developed some magnificent consumer
franchise, or that it was fortunate enough to obtain some important television
stations by original fcc grant. therefore, it earns a great deal on tangible
assets, say $5 per share, or 25%.

with such economics, it might sell for $100 per share or more, and it might
well also bring that price in a negotiated sale of the entire business.

assume an investor buys the stock at $100 per share, paying in effect $80 per
share for goodwill (just as would a corporate purchaser buying the whole
company). should the investor impute a $2 per share amortization charge
annually ($80 divided by 40 years) to calculate "true" earnings per share?
and, if so, should the new "true" earnings of $3 per share cause him to
rethink his purchase price?

* * * * *

we believe managers and investors alike should view intangible assets from two
perspectives:

    1. in analysis of operating results that is, in evaluating the underlying economics of a business unit amortization charges should be ignored. what a business can be expected to earn on unleveraged net tangible assets, excluding any charges against earnings for amortization of goodwill, is the best guide to the economic attractiveness of the operation. it is also the best guide to the current value of the operations economic goodwill.

    1. in evaluating the wisdom of business acquisitions, amortization charges should be ignored also. they should be deducted neither from earnings nor from the cost of the business. this means forever viewing purchased goodwill at its full cost, before any amortization. furthermore, cost should be defined as including the full intrinsic business value not just the recorded accounting value of all consideration given, irrespective of market prices of the securities involved at the time of merger and irrespective of whether pooling treatment was allowed. for example, what we truly paid in the blue chip merger for 40% of the goodwill of sees and the news was considerably more than the $51.7 million entered on our books. this disparity exists because the market value of the berkshire shares given up in the merger was less than their intrinsic business value, which is the value that defines the true cost to us. 

operations that appear to be winners based upon perspective (1) may pale when
viewed from perspective (2). a good business is not always a good purchase
although its a good place to look for one.



we will try to acquire businesses that have excellent operating economics
measured by (1) and that provide reasonable returns measured by (2).
accounting consequences will be totally ignored.

at yearend 1983, net goodwill on our accounting books totaled $62 million,
consisting of the $79 million you see stated on the asset side of our balance
sheet, and $17 million of negative goodwill that is offset against the
carrying value of our interest in mutual savings and loan.

we believe net economic goodwill far exceeds the $62 million accounting
number.

_____________

