**berkshire hathaway inc.**
    
    
    
    
    **to the shareholders of berkshire hathaway inc.:**
    
         you may remember the wildly upbeat message of last years 
    report: nothing much was in the works but our experience had been 
    that something big popped up occasionally.  this carefully-
    crafted corporate strategy paid off in 1985.  later sections of 
    this report discuss (a) our purchase of a major position in 
    capital cities/abc, (b) our acquisition of scott & fetzer, (c) 
    our entry into a large, extended term participation in the 
    insurance business of firemans fund, and (d) our sale of our 
    stock in general foods.
    
         our gain in net worth during the year was $613.6 million, or 
    48.2%. it is fitting that the visit of halleys comet coincided 
    with this percentage gain: neither will be seen again in my 
    lifetime.  our gain in per-share book value over the last twenty-
    one years (that is, since present management took over) has been 
    from $19.46 to $1643.71, or 23.2% compounded annually, another 
    percentage that will not be repeated.
    
        two factors make anything approaching this rate of gain 
    unachievable in the future.  one factor probably transitory - is 
    a stock market that offers very little opportunity compared to 
    the markets that prevailed throughout much of the 1964-1984 
    period.  today we cannot find significantly-undervalued equities 
    to purchase for our insurance company portfolios.  the current 
    situation is 180 degrees removed from that existing about a 
    decade ago, when the only question was which bargain to choose.
    
         this change in the market also has negative implications for 
    our present portfolio.  in our 1974 annual report i could say:  
    we consider several of our major holdings to have great 
    potential for significantly increased values in future years. i 
    cant say that now.  its true that our insurance companies 
    currently hold major positions in companies with exceptional 
    underlying economics and outstanding managements, just as they 
    did in 1974.  but current market prices generously appraise these 
    attributes, whereas they were ignored in 1974.  todays 
    valuations mean that our insurance companies have no chance for 
    future portfolio gains on the scale of those achieved in the 
    past.
    
         the second negative factor, far more telling, is our size.  
    our equity capital is more than twenty times what it was only ten 
    years ago.  and an iron law of business is that growth eventually 
    dampens exceptional economics. just look at the records of high-
    return companies once they have amassed even $1 billion of equity 
    capital.  none that i know of has managed subsequently, over a 
    ten-year period, to keep on earning 20% or more on equity while 
    reinvesting all or substantially all of its earnings.  instead, 
    to sustain their high returns, such companies have needed to shed 
    a lot of capital by way of either dividends or repurchases of 
    stock.  their shareholders would have been far better off if all 
    earnings could have been reinvested at the fat returns earned by 
    these exceptional businesses.  but the companies simply couldnt 
    turn up enough high-return opportunities to make that possible.
    
         their problem is our problem.  last year i told you that we 
    needed profits of $3.9 billion over the ten years then coming up 
    to earn 15% annually.  the comparable figure for the ten years 
    now ahead is $5.7 billion, a 48% increase that corresponds - as 
    it must mathematically - to the growth in our capital base during 
    1985. (heres a little perspective: leaving aside oil companies, 
    only about 15 u.s. businesses have managed to earn over $5.7 
    billion during the past ten years.)
    
         charlie munger, my partner in managing berkshire, and i are 
    reasonably optimistic about berkshires ability to earn returns 
    superior to those earned by corporate america generally, and you 
    will benefit from the companys retention of all earnings as long 
    as those returns are forthcoming.  we have several things going 
    for us: (1) we dont have to worry about quarterly or annual 
    figures but, instead, can focus on whatever actions will maximize 
    long-term value; (2) we can expand the business into any areas 
    that make sense - our scope is not circumscribed by history, 
    structure, or concept; and (3) we love our work.  all of these 
    help.  even so, we will also need a full measure of good fortune 
    to average our hoped-for 15% - far more good fortune than was 
    required for our past 23.2%.
    
         we need to mention one further item in the investment 
    equation that could affect recent purchasers of our stock.  
    historically, berkshire shares have sold modestly below intrinsic 
    business value.  with the price there, purchasers could be 
    certain (as long as they did not experience a widening of this 
    discount) that their personal investment experience would at 
    least equal the financial experience of the business.  but 
    recently the discount has disappeared, and occasionally a modest 
    premium has prevailed.
    
         the elimination of the discount means that berkshires 
    market value increased even faster than business value (which, 
    itself, grew at a pleasing pace).  that was good news for any 
    owner holding while that move took place, but it is bad news for 
    the new or prospective owner.  if the financial experience of new 
    owners of berkshire is merely to match the future financial 
    experience of the company, any premium of market value over 
    intrinsic business value that they pay must be maintained.
    
         management cannot determine market prices, although it can, 
    by its disclosures and policies, encourage rational behavior by 
    market participants.  my own preference, as perhaps youd guess, 
    is for a market price that consistently approximates business 
    value.  given that relationship, all owners prosper precisely as 
    the business prospers during their period of ownership.  wild 
    swings in market prices far above and below business value do not 
    change the final gains for owners in aggregate; in the end, 
    investor gains must equal business gains.  but long periods of 
    substantial undervaluation and/or overvaluation will cause the 
    gains of the business to be inequitably distributed among various 
    owners, with the investment result of any given owner largely 
    depending upon how lucky, shrewd, or foolish he happens to be.
    
         over the long term there has been a more consistent 
    relationship between berkshires market value and business value 
    than has existed for any other publicly-traded equity with which 
    i am familiar.  this is a tribute to you.  because you have been 
    rational, interested, and investment-oriented, the market price 
    for berkshire stock has almost always been sensible.  this 
    unusual result has been achieved by a shareholder group with 
    unusual demographics: virtually all of our shareholders are 
    individuals, not institutions.  no other public company our size 
    can claim the same.
    
         you might think that institutions, with their large staffs 
    of highly-paid and experienced investment professionals, would be 
    a force for stability and reason in financial markets.  they are 
    not: stocks heavily owned and constantly monitored by 
    institutions have often been among the most inappropriately 
    valued.
    
         ben graham told a story 40 years ago that illustrates why 
    investment professionals behave as they do: an oil prospector, 
    moving to his heavenly reward, was met by st. peter with bad 
    news.  youre qualified for residence, said st. peter, but, as 
    you can see, the compound reserved for oil men is packed.  
    theres no way to squeeze you in. after thinking a moment, the 
    prospector asked if he might say just four words to the present 
    occupants.  that seemed harmless to st. peter, so the prospector 
    cupped his hands and yelled, oil discovered in hell. 
    immediately the gate to the compound opened and all of the oil 
    men marched out to head for the nether regions.  impressed, st. 
    peter invited the prospector to move in and make himself 
    comfortable.  the prospector paused.  no, he said, i think 
    ill go along with the rest of the boys.  there might be some 
    truth to that rumor after all.
    
    **sources of reported earnings**
    
         the table on the next page shows the major sources of 
    berkshires reported earnings.  these numbers, along with far 
    more detailed sub-segment numbers, are the ones that charlie and 
    i focus upon.  we do not find consolidated figures an aid in 
    either managing or evaluating berkshire and, in fact, never 
    prepare them for internal use.
    
         segment information is equally essential for investors 
    wanting to know what is going on in a multi-line business.  
    corporate managers always have insisted upon such information 
    before making acquisition decisions but, until a few years ago, 
    seldom made it available to investors faced with acquisition and 
    disposition decisions of their own.  instead, when owners wishing 
    to understand the economic realities of their business asked for 
    data, managers usually gave them a we-cant-tell-you-what-is-
    going-on-because-it-would-hurt-the-company answer.  ultimately 
    the sec ordered disclosure of segment data and management began 
    supplying real answers.  the change in their behavior recalls an 
    insight of al capone: you can get much further with a kind word 
    and a gun than you can with a kind word alone.
    
    in the table, amortization of goodwill is not charged against the 
    specific businesses but, for reasons outlined in the appendix to 
    my letter in the 1983 annual report, is aggregated as a separate 
    item. (a compendium of the 1977-1984 letters is available upon 
    request.) in the business segment data and managements 
    discussion sections on pages 39-41 and 49-55, much additional 
    information regarding our businesses is provided, including 
    goodwill and goodwill amortization figures for each of the 
    segments.  i urge you to read those sections as well as charlie 
    mungers letter to wesco shareholders, which starts on page 56.
    _
                                                    (000s omitted) 
                                      -----------------------------------------
                                                             berkshire's share 
                                                              of net earnings 
                                                             (after taxes and 
                                        pre-tax earnings    minority interests)
                                      -------------------   -------------------
                                        1985       1984       1985       1984 _
                                      --------   --------   --------   --------
    operating earnings:
      insurance group:
        underwriting ................ $(44,230)  $(48,060)  $(23,569)  $(25,955)
        net investment income .......   95,217     68,903     79,716     62,059
      associated retail stores ......      270     (1,072)       134       (579)
      blue chip stamps ..............    5,763     (1,843)     2,813       (899)
      buffalo news ..................   29,921     27,328     14,580     13,317
      mutual savings and loan .......    2,622      1,456      4,016      3,151
      nebraska furniture mart .......   12,686     14,511      5,181      5,917
      precision steel ...............    3,896      4,092      1,477      1,696
      sees candies .................   28,989     26,644     14,558     13,380
      textiles ......................   (2,395)       418     (1,324)       226
      wesco financial ...............    9,500      9,777      4,191      4,828
      amortization of goodwill ......   (1,475)    (1,434)    (1,475)    (1,434)
      interest on debt ..............  (14,415)   (14,734)    (7,288)    (7,452)
      shareholder-designated 
         contributions ..............   (4,006)    (3,179)    (2,164)    (1,716)
      other .........................    3,106      4,932      2,102      3,475
                                      --------   --------   --------   --------
    operating earnings ..............  125,449     87,739     92,948     70,014
    special general foods distribution   4,127      8,111      3,779      7,294
    special washington post 
       distribution .................   14,877      ---       13,851      ---
    sales of securities .............  468,903    104,699    325,237     71,587
                                      --------   --------   --------   --------
    total earnings - all entities ... $613,356   $200,549   $435,815   $148,895
                                      ========   ========   ========   ======== 
    
         our 1985 results include unusually large earnings from the 
    sale of securities.  this fact, in itself, does not mean that we 
    had a particularly good year (though, of course, we did).  
    security profits in a given year bear similarities to a college 
    graduation ceremony in which the knowledge gained over four years 
    is recognized on a day when nothing further is learned.  we may 
    hold a stock for a decade or more, and during that period it may 
    grow quite consistently in both business and market value.  in 
    the year in which we finally sell it there may be no increase in 
    value, or there may even be a decrease.  but all growth in value 
    since purchase will be reflected in the accounting earnings of 
    the year of sale. (if the stock owned is in our insurance 
    subsidiaries, however, any gain or loss in market value will be 
    reflected in net worth annually.) thus, reported capital gains or 
    losses in any given year are meaningless as a measure of how well 
    we have done in the current year.
    
         a large portion of the realized gain in 1985 ($338 million 
    pre-tax out of a total of $488 million) came about through the 
    sale of our general foods shares.  we held most of these shares 
    since 1980, when we had purchased them at a price far below what 
    we felt was their per/share business value.  year by year, the 
    managerial efforts of jim ferguson and phil smith substantially 
    increased general foods business value and, last fall, philip 
    morris made an offer for the company that reflected the increase.  
    we thus benefited from four factors: a bargain purchase price, a 
    business with fine underlying economics, an able management 
    concentrating on the interests of shareholders, and a buyer 
    willing to pay full business value.  while that last factor is 
    the only one that produces reported earnings, we consider 
    identification of the first three to be the key to building value 
    for berkshire shareholders.  in selecting common stocks, we 
    devote our attention to attractive purchases, not to the 
    possibility of attractive sales.
    
         we have again reported substantial income from special 
    distributions, this year from washington post and general foods. 
    (the general foods transactions obviously took place well before 
    the philip morris offer.) distributions of this kind occur when 
    we sell a portion of our shares in a company back to it 
    simultaneously with its purchase of shares from other 
    shareholders.  the number of shares we sell is contractually set 
    so as to leave our percentage ownership in the company precisely 
    the same after the sale as before.  such a transaction is quite 
    properly regarded by the irs as substantially equivalent to a 
    dividend since we, as a shareholder, receive cash while 
    maintaining an unchanged ownership interest.  this tax treatment 
    benefits us because corporate taxpayers, unlike individual 
    taxpayers, incur much lower taxes on dividend income than on 
    income from long-term capital gains. (this difference will be 
    widened further if the house-passed tax bill becomes law: under 
    its provisions, capital gains realized by corporations will be 
    taxed at the same rate as ordinary income.) however, accounting 
    rules are unclear as to proper treatment for shareholder 
    reporting.  to conform with last years treatment, we have shown 
    these transactions as capital gains.
    
         though we have not sought out such transactions, we have 
    agreed to them on several occasions when managements initiated 
    the idea.  in each case we have felt that non-selling 
    shareholders (all of whom had an opportunity to sell at the same 
    price we received) benefited because the companies made their 
    repurchases at prices below intrinsic business value.  the tax 
    advantages we receive and our wish to cooperate with managements 
    that are increasing values for all shareholders have sometimes 
    led us to sell - but only to the extent that our proportional 
    share of the business was undiminished.
    
         at this point we usually turn to a discussion of some of our 
    major business units.  before doing so, however, we should first 
    look at a failure at one of our smaller businesses.  our vice 
    chairman, charlie munger, has always emphasized the study of 
    mistakes rather than successes, both in business and other 
    aspects of life.  he does so in the spirit of the man who said: 
    all i want to know is where im going to die so ill never go 
    there. youll immediately see why we make a good team: charlie 
    likes to study errors and i have generated ample material for 
    him, particularly in our textile and insurance businesses.
    
    **shutdown of textile business**
    
         in july we decided to close our textile operation, and by 
    yearend this unpleasant job was largely completed.  the history 
    of this business is instructive.
    
         when buffett partnership, ltd., an investment partnership of 
    which i was general partner, bought control of berkshire hathaway 
    21 years ago, it had an accounting net worth of $22 million, all 
    devoted to the textile business.  the companys intrinsic 
    business value, however, was considerably less because the 
    textile assets were unable to earn returns commensurate with 
    their accounting value.  indeed, during the previous nine years 
    (the period in which berkshire and hathaway operated as a merged 
    company) aggregate sales of $530 million had produced an 
    aggregate loss of $10 million.  profits had been reported from 
    time to time but the net effect was always one step forward, two 
    steps back.
    
         at the time we made our purchase, southern textile plants - 
    largely non-union - were believed to have an important 
    competitive advantage.  most northern textile operations had 
    closed and many people thought we would liquidate our business as 
    well.
    
         we felt, however, that the business would be run much better 
    by a long-time employee whom. we immediately selected to be 
    president, ken chace.  in this respect we were 100% correct: ken 
    and his recent successor, garry morrison, have been excellent 
    managers, every bit the equal of managers at our more profitable 
    businesses.
    
         in early 1967 cash generated by the textile operation was 
    used to fund our entry into insurance via the purchase of 
    national indemnity company.  some of the money came from earnings 
    and some from reduced investment in textile inventories, 
    receivables, and fixed assets.  this pullback proved wise: 
    although much improved by kens management, the textile business 
    never became a good earner, not even in cyclical upturns.
    
         further diversification for berkshire followed, and 
    gradually the textile operations depressing effect on our 
    overall return diminished as the business became a progressively 
    smaller portion of the corporation.  we remained in the business 
    for reasons that i stated in the 1978 annual report (and 
    summarized at other times also): (1) our textile businesses are 
    very important employers in their communities, (2) management has 
    been straightforward in reporting on problems and energetic in 
    attacking them, (3) labor has been cooperative and understanding 
    in facing our common problems, and (4) the business should 
    average modest cash returns relative to investment. i further 
    said, as long as these conditions prevail - and we expect that 
    they will - we intend to continue to support our textile business 
    despite more attractive alternative uses for capital.
    
         it turned out that i was very wrong about (4).  though 1979 
    was moderately profitable, the business thereafter consumed major 
    amounts of cash. by mid-1985 it became clear, even to me, that 
    this condition was almost sure to continue.  could we have found 
    a buyer who would continue operations, i would have certainly 
    preferred to sell the business rather than liquidate it, even if 
    that meant somewhat lower proceeds for us.  but the economics 
    that were finally obvious to me were also obvious to others, and 
    interest was nil.
    
         i wont close down businesses of sub-normal profitability 
    merely to add a fraction of a point to our corporate rate of 
    return.  however, i also feel it inappropriate for even an 
    exceptionally profitable company to fund an operation once it 
    appears to have unending losses in prospect.  adam smith would 
    disagree with my first proposition, and karl marx would disagree 
    with my second; the middle ground is the only position that 
    leaves me comfortable.
    
         i should reemphasize that ken and garry have been 
    resourceful, energetic and imaginative in attempting to make our 
    textile operation a success.  trying to achieve sustainable 
    profitability, they reworked product lines, machinery 
    configurations and distribution arrangements.  we also made a 
    major acquisition, waumbec mills, with the expectation of 
    important synergy (a term widely used in business to explain an 
    acquisition that otherwise makes no sense).  but in the end 
    nothing worked and i should be faulted for not quitting sooner.  
    a recent _business week_ article stated that 250 textile mills have 
    closed since 1980.  their owners were not privy to any 
    information that was unknown to me; they simply processed it more 
    objectively.  i ignored comtes advice - the intellect should be 
    the servant of the heart, but not its slave - and believed what 
    i preferred to believe.
    
         the domestic textile industry operates in a commodity 
    business, competing in a world market in which substantial excess 
    capacity exists.  much of the trouble we experienced was 
    attributable, both directly and indirectly, to competition from 
    foreign countries whose workers are paid a small fraction of the 
    u.s. minimum wage.  but that in no way means that our labor force 
    deserves any blame for our closing.  in fact, in comparison with 
    employees of american industry generally, our workers were poorly 
    paid, as has been the case throughout the textile business.  in 
    contract negotiations, union leaders and members were sensitive 
    to our disadvantageous cost position and did not push for 
    unrealistic wage increases or unproductive work practices.  to 
    the contrary, they tried just as hard as we did to keep us 
    competitive.  even during our liquidation period they performed 
    superbly. (ironically, we would have been better off financially 
    if our union had behaved unreasonably some years ago; we then 
    would have recognized the impossible future that we faced, 
    promptly closed down, and avoided significant future losses.)
    
         over the years, we had the option of making large capital 
    expenditures in the textile operation that would have allowed us 
    to somewhat reduce variable costs.  each proposal to do so looked 
    like an immediate winner.  measured by standard return-on-
    investment tests, in fact, these proposals usually promised 
    greater economic benefits than would have resulted from 
    comparable expenditures in our highly-profitable candy and 
    newspaper businesses.
    
         but the promised benefits from these textile investments 
    were illusory.  many of our competitors, both domestic and 
    foreign, were stepping up to the same kind of expenditures and, 
    once enough companies did so, their reduced costs became the 
    baseline for reduced prices industrywide.  viewed individually, 
    each companys capital investment decision appeared cost-
    effective and rational; viewed collectively, the decisions 
    neutralized each other and were irrational (just as happens when 
    each person watching a parade decides he can see a little better 
    if he stands on tiptoes).  after each round of investment, all 
    the players had more money in the game and returns remained 
    anemic.
    
         thus, we faced a miserable choice: huge capital investment 
    would have helped to keep our textile business alive, but would 
    have left us with terrible returns on ever-growing amounts of 
    capital.  after the investment, moreover, the foreign competition 
    would still have retained a major, continuing advantage in labor 
    costs.  a refusal to invest, however, would make us increasingly 
    non-competitive, even measured against domestic textile 
    manufacturers.  i always thought myself in the position described 
    by woody allen in one of his movies: more than any other time in 
    history, mankind faces a crossroads.  one path leads to despair 
    and utter hopelessness, the other to total extinction.  let us 
    pray we have the wisdom to choose correctly.
    
         for an understanding of how the to-invest-or-not-to-invest 
    dilemma plays out in a commodity business, it is instructive to 
    look at burlington industries, by far the largest u.s. textile 
    company both 21 years ago and now.  in 1964 burlington had sales 
    of $1.2 billion against our $50 million.  it had strengths in 
    both distribution and production that we could never hope to 
    match and also, of course, had an earnings record far superior to 
    ours.  its stock sold at 60 at the end of 1964; ours was 13.
    
         burlington made a decision to stick to the textile business, 
    and in 1985 had sales of about $2.8 billion.  during the 1964-85 
    period, the company made capital expenditures of about $3 
    billion, far more than any other u.s. textile company and more 
    than $200-per-share on that $60 stock.  a very large part of the 
    expenditures, i am sure, was devoted to cost improvement and 
    expansion.  given burlingtons basic commitment to stay in 
    textiles, i would also surmise that the companys capital 
    decisions were quite rational.
    
         nevertheless, burlington has lost sales volume in real 
    dollars and has far lower returns on sales and equity now than 20 
    years ago.  split 2-for-1 in 1965, the stock now sells at 34 -- 
    on an adjusted basis, just a little over its $60 price in 1964.  
    meanwhile, the cpi has more than tripled.  therefore, each share 
    commands about one-third the purchasing power it did at the end 
    of 1964.  regular dividends have been paid but they, too, have 
    shrunk significantly in purchasing power.
    
         this devastating outcome for the shareholders indicates what 
    can happen when much brain power and energy are applied to a 
    faulty premise.  the situation is suggestive of samuel johnsons 
    horse: a horse that can count to ten is a remarkable horse - not 
    a remarkable mathematician. likewise, a textile company that 
    allocates capital brilliantly within its industry is a remarkable 
    textile company - but not a remarkable business.
    
         my conclusion from my own experiences and from much 
    observation of other businesses is that a good managerial record 
    (measured by economic returns) is far more a function of what 
    business boat you get into than it is of how effectively you row 
    (though intelligence and effort help considerably, of course, in 
    any business, good or bad).  some years ago i wrote: when a 
    management with a reputation for brilliance tackles a business 
    with a reputation for poor fundamental economics, it is the 
    reputation of the business that remains intact. nothing has 
    since changed my point of view on that matter.  should you find 
    yourself in a chronically-leaking boat, energy devoted to 
    changing vessels is likely to be more productive than energy 
    devoted to patching leaks.
    
                                *  *  *
    
         there is an investment postscript in our textile saga.  some 
    investors weight book value heavily in their stock-buying 
    decisions (as i, in my early years, did myself).  and some 
    economists and academicians believe replacement values are of 
    considerable importance in calculating an appropriate price level 
    for the stock market as a whole.  those of both persuasions would 
    have received an education at the auction we held in early 1986 
    to dispose of our textile machinery.
    
         the equipment sold (including some disposed of in the few 
    months prior to the auction) took up about 750,000 square feet of 
    factory space in new bedford and was eminently usable.  it 
    originally cost us about $13 million, including $2 million spent 
    in 1980-84, and had a current book value of $866,000 (after 
    accelerated depreciation).  though no sane management would have 
    made the investment, the equipment could have been replaced new 
    for perhaps $30-$50 million.
    
         gross proceeds from our sale of this equipment came to 
    $163,122.  allowing for necessary pre- and post-sale costs, our 
    net was less than zero.  relatively modern looms that we bought 
    for $5,000 apiece in 1981 found no takers at $50.  we finally 
    sold them for scrap at $26 each, a sum less than removal costs.
    
         ponder this: the economic goodwill attributable to two paper 
    routes in buffalo - or a single sees candy store - considerably 
    exceeds the proceeds we received from this massive collection of 
    tangible assets that not too many years ago, under different 
    competitive conditions, was able to employ over 1,000 people.
    
    **three very good businesses (and a few thoughts about incentive 
    compensation)**
    
         when i was 12, i lived with my grandfather for about four 
    months.  a grocer by trade, he was also working on a book and 
    each night he dictated a few pages to me.  the title - brace 
    yourself - was how to run a grocery store and a few things i 
    have learned about fishing.  my grandfather was sure that 
    interest in these two subjects was universal and that the world 
    awaited his views.  you may conclude from this sections title 
    and contents that i was overexposed to grandpas literary style 
    (and personality).
    
         i am merging the discussion of nebraska furniture mart, 
    sees candy shops, and buffalo evening news here because the 
    economic strengths, weaknesses, and prospects of these businesses 
    have changed little since i reported to you a year ago.  the 
    shortness of this discussion, however, is in no way meant to 
    minimize the importance of these businesses to us: in 1985 they 
    earned an aggregate of $72 million pre-tax.  fifteen years ago, 
    before we had acquired any of them, their aggregate earnings were 
    about $8 million pre-tax.
    
         while an increase in earnings from $8 million to $72 million 
    sounds terrific - and usually is - you should not automatically 
    assume that to be the case.  you must first make sure that 
    earnings were not severely depressed in the base year.  if they 
    were instead substantial in relation to capital employed, an even 
    more important point must be examined: how much additional 
    capital was required to produce the additional earnings?
    
         in both respects, our group of three scores well.  first, 
    earnings 15 years ago were excellent compared to capital then 
    employed in the businesses.  second, although annual earnings are 
    now $64 million greater, the businesses require only about $40 
    million more in invested capital to operate than was the case 
    then.
    
         the dramatic growth in earning power of these three 
    businesses, accompanied by their need for only minor amounts of 
    capital, illustrates very well the power of economic goodwill 
    during an inflationary period (a phenomenon explained in detail 
    in the 1983 annual report).  the financial characteristics of 
    these businesses have allowed us to use a very large portion of 
    the earnings they generate elsewhere.  corporate america, 
    however, has had a different experience: in order to increase 
    earnings significantly, most companies have needed to increase 
    capital significantly also.  the average american business has 
    required about $5 of additional capital to generate an additional 
    $1 of annual pre-tax earnings.  that business, therefore, would 
    have required over $300 million in additional capital from its 
    owners in order to achieve an earnings performance equal to our 
    group of three.
    
         when returns on capital are ordinary, an earn-more-by-
    putting-up-more record is no great managerial achievement.  you 
    can get the same result personally while operating from your 
    rocking chair. just quadruple the capital you commit to a savings 
    account and you will quadruple your earnings.  you would hardly 
    expect hosannas for that particular accomplishment.  yet, 
    retirement announcements regularly sing the praises of ceos who 
    have, say, quadrupled earnings of their widget company during 
    their reign - with no one examining whether this gain was 
    attributable simply to many years of retained earnings and the 
    workings of compound interest.
    
         if the widget company consistently earned a superior return 
    on capital throughout the period, or if capital employed only 
    doubled during the ceos reign, the praise for him may be well 
    deserved.  but if return on capital was lackluster and capital 
    employed increased in pace with earnings, applause should be 
    withheld.  a savings account in which interest was reinvested 
    would achieve the same year-by-year increase in earnings - and, 
    at only 8% interest, would quadruple its annual earnings in 18 
    years.
    
         the power of this simple math is often ignored by companies 
    to the detriment of their shareholders.  many corporate 
    compensation plans reward managers handsomely for earnings 
    increases produced solely, or in large part, by retained earnings 
    - i.e., earnings withheld from owners.  for example, ten-year, 
    fixed-price stock options are granted routinely, often by 
    companies whose dividends are only a small percentage of 
    earnings.
    
         an example will illustrate the inequities possible under 
    such circumstances.  lets suppose that you had a $100,000 
    savings account earning 8% interest and managed by a trustee 
    who could decide each year what portion of the interest you were 
    to be paid in cash.  interest not paid out would be retained 
    earnings added to the savings account to compound.  and lets 
    suppose that your trustee, in his superior wisdom, set the pay-
    out ratio at one-quarter of the annual earnings.
    
         under these assumptions, your account would be worth 
    $179,084 at the end of ten years.  additionally, your annual 
    earnings would have increased about 70% from $8,000 to $13,515 
    under this inspired management.  and, finally, your dividends 
    would have increased commensurately, rising regularly from $2,000 
    in the first year to $3,378 in the tenth year.  each year, when 
    your managers public relations firm prepared his annual report 
    to you, all of the charts would have had lines marching skyward.
    
         now, just for fun, lets push our scenario one notch further 
    and give your trustee-manager a ten-year fixed-price option on 
    part of your business (i.e., your savings account) based on its 
    fair value in the first year.  with such an option, your manager 
    would reap a substantial profit at your expense - just from 
    having held on to most of your earnings.  if he were both 
    machiavellian and a bit of a mathematician, your manager might 
    also have cut the pay-out ratio once he was firmly entrenched.
    
         this scenario is not as farfetched as you might think.  many 
    stock options in the corporate world have worked in exactly that 
    fashion: they have gained in value simply because management 
    retained earnings, not because it did well with the capital in 
    its hands.
    
         managers actually apply a double standard to options.  
    leaving aside warrants (which deliver the issuing corporation 
    immediate and substantial compensation), i believe it is fair to 
    say that nowhere in the business world are ten-year fixed-price 
    options on all or a portion of a business granted to outsiders.  
    ten months, in fact, would be regarded as extreme.  it would be 
    particularly unthinkable for managers to grant a long-term option 
    on a business that was regularly adding to its capital.  any 
    outsider wanting to secure such an option would be required to 
    pay fully for capital added during the option period.
    
         the unwillingness of managers to do-unto-outsiders, however, 
    is not matched by an unwillingness to do-unto-themselves. 
    (negotiating with ones self seldom produces a barroom brawl.) 
    managers regularly engineer ten-year, fixed-price options for 
    themselves and associates that, first, totally ignore the fact 
    that retained earnings automatically build value and, second, 
    ignore the carrying cost of capital.  as a result, these managers 
    end up profiting much as they would have had they had an option 
    on that savings account that was automatically building up in 
    value.
    
         of course, stock options often go to talented, value-adding 
    managers and sometimes deliver them rewards that are perfectly 
    appropriate. (indeed, managers who are really exceptional almost 
    always get far less than they should.) but when the result is 
    equitable, it is accidental.  once granted, the option is blind 
    to individual performance.  because it is irrevocable and 
    unconditional (so long as a manager stays in the company), the 
    sluggard receives rewards from his options precisely as does the 
    star.  a managerial rip van winkle, ready to doze for ten years, 
    could not wish for a better incentive system.
    
         (i cant resist commenting on one long-term option given an 
    outsider: that granted the u.s. government on chrysler shares 
    as partial consideration for the governments guarantee of some 
    lifesaving loans.  when these options worked out well for the 
    government, chrysler sought to modify the payoff, arguing that 
    the rewards to the government were both far greater than intended 
    and outsize in relation to its contribution to chryslers 
    recovery.  the companys anguish over what it saw as an imbalance 
    between payoff and performance made national news.  that anguish 
    may well be unique: to my knowledge, no managers - anywhere - 
    have been similarly offended by unwarranted payoffs arising from 
    options granted to themselves or their colleagues.)
    
         ironically, the rhetoric about options frequently describes 
    them as desirable because they put managers and owners in the 
    same financial boat.  in reality, the boats are far different.  
    no owner has ever escaped the burden of capital costs, whereas a 
    holder of a fixed-price option bears no capital costs at all.  an 
    owner must weigh upside potential against downside risk; an 
    option holder has no downside.  in fact, the business project in 
    which you would wish to have an option frequently is a project in 
    which you would reject ownership. (ill be happy to accept a 
    lottery ticket as a gift - but ill never buy one.)
    
         in dividend policy also, the option holders interests are 
    best served by a policy that may ill serve the owner.  think back 
    to the savings account example.  the trustee, holding his option, 
    would benefit from a no-dividend policy.  conversely, the owner 
    of the account should lean to a total payout so that he can 
    prevent the option-holding manager from sharing in the accounts 
    retained earnings.
    
         despite their shortcomings, options can be appropriate under 
    some circumstances.  my criticism relates to their indiscriminate 
    use and, in that connection, i would like to emphasize three 
    points:
    
         first, stock options are inevitably tied to the overall 
    performance of a corporation.  logically, therefore, they should 
    be awarded only to those managers with overall responsibility.  
    managers with limited areas of responsibility should have 
    incentives that pay off in relation to results under their 
    control.  the .350 hitter expects, and also deserves, a big 
    payoff for his performance - even if he plays for a cellar-
    dwelling team.  and the .150 hitter should get no reward - even 
    if he plays for a pennant winner.  only those with overall 
    responsibility for the team should have their rewards tied to its 
    results.
    
         second, options should be structured carefully.  absent 
    special factors, they should have built into them a retained-
    earnings or carrying-cost factor.  equally important, they should 
    be priced realistically.  when managers are faced with offers for 
    their companies, they unfailingly point out how unrealistic 
    market prices can be as an index of real value.  but why, then, 
    should these same depressed prices be the valuations at which 
    managers sell portions of their businesses to themselves? (they 
    may go further: officers and directors sometimes consult the tax 
    code to determine the _lowest_ prices at which they can, in effect, 
    sell part of the business to insiders.  while theyre at it, they 
    often elect plans that produce the worst tax result for the 
    company.) except in highly unusual cases, owners are not well 
    served by the sale of part of their business at a bargain price - 
    whether the sale is to outsiders or to insiders.  the obvious 
    conclusion: options should be priced at true business value.
    
         third, i want to emphasize that some managers whom i admire 
    enormously - and whose operating records are far better than mine 
    - disagree with me regarding fixed-price options.  they have 
    built corporate cultures that work, and fixed-price options have 
    been a tool that helped them.  by their leadership and example, 
    and by the use of options as incentives, these managers have 
    taught their colleagues to think like owners.  such a culture is 
    rare and when it exists should perhaps be left intact - despite 
    inefficiencies and inequities that may infest the option program.  
    if it aint broke, dont fix it is preferable to purity at any 
    price.
    
         at berkshire, however, we use an incentive@compensation 
    system that rewards key managers for meeting targets in their own 
    bailiwicks.  if sees does well, that does not produce incentive 
    compensation at the news - nor vice versa.  neither do we look at 
    the price of berkshire stock when we write bonus checks.  we 
    believe good unit performance should be rewarded whether 
    berkshire stock rises, falls, or stays even.  similarly, we think 
    average performance should earn no special rewards even if our 
    stock should soar.  performance, furthermore, is defined in 
    different ways depending upon the underlying economics of the 
    business: in some our managers enjoy tailwinds not of their own 
    making, in others they fight unavoidable headwinds.
    
         the rewards that go with this system can be large.  at our 
    various business units, top managers sometimes receive incentive 
    bonuses of five times their base salary, or more, and it would 
    appear possible that one managers bonus could top $2 million in 
    1986. (i hope so.) we do not put a cap on bonuses, and the 
    potential for rewards is not hierarchical.  the manager of a 
    relatively small unit can earn far more than the manager of a 
    larger unit if results indicate he should.  we believe, further, 
    that such factors as seniority and age should not affect 
    incentive compensation (though they sometimes influence basic 
    compensation).  a 20-year-old who can hit .300 is as valuable to 
    us as a 40-year-old performing as well.
    
         obviously, all berkshire managers can use their bonus money 
    (or other funds, including borrowed money) to buy our stock in 
    the market.  many have done just that - and some now have large 
    holdings.  by accepting both the risks and the carrying costs 
    that go with outright purchases, these managers truly walk in the 
    shoes of owners.
    
         now lets get back - at long last - to our three businesses:
    
         at nebraska furniture mart our basic strength is an 
    exceptionally low-cost operation that allows the business to 
    regularly offer customers the best values available in home 
    furnishings.  nfm is the largest store of its kind in the 
    country.  although the already-depressed farm economy worsened 
    considerably in 1985, the store easily set a new sales record.  i 
    also am happy to report that nfms chairman, rose blumkin (the 
    legendary mrs.  b), continues at age 92 to set a pace at the 
    store that none of us can keep up with.  shes there wheeling and 
    dealing seven days a week, and i hope that any of you who visit 
    omaha will go out to the mart and see her in action.  it will 
    inspire you, as it does me.
    
         at sees we continue to get store volumes that are far 
    beyond those achieved by any competitor we know of.  despite the 
    unmatched consumer acceptance we enjoy, industry trends are not 
    good, and we continue to experience slippage in poundage sales on 
    a same-store basis.  this puts pressure on per-pound costs.  we 
    now are willing to increase prices only modestly and, unless we 
    can stabilize per-shop poundage, profit margins will narrow.
    
         at the news volume gains are also difficult to achieve.  
    though linage increased during 1985, the gain was more than 
    accounted for by preprints.  rop linage (advertising printed on 
    our own pages) declined.  preprints are far less profitable than 
    rop ads, and also more vulnerable to competition.  in 1985, the 
    news again controlled costs well and our household penetration 
    continues to be exceptional.
    
         one problem these three operations do not have is 
    management.  at sees we have chuck huggins, the man we put in 
    charge the day we bought the business.  selecting him remains one 
    of our best business decisions.  at the news we have stan lipsey, 
    a manager of equal caliber.  stan has been with us 17 years, and 
    his unusual business talents have become more evident with every 
    additional level of responsibility he has tackled.  and, at the 
    mart, we have the amazing blumkins - mrs. b, louie, ron, irv, and 
    steve - a three-generation miracle of management.
    
         i consider myself extraordinarily lucky to be able to work 
    with managers such as these.  i like them personally as much as i 
    admire them professionally.
    
    **insurance operations**
    
         shown below is an updated version of our usual table, 
    listing two key figures for the insurance industry:
    _
                             yearly change       combined ratio
                              in premiums      after policyholder
                              written (%)          dividends_
                             -------------     ------------------
         1972 ...............    10.2                  96.2
         1973 ...............     8.0                  99.2
         1974 ...............     6.2                 105.4
         1975 ...............    11.0                 107.9
         1976 ...............    21.9                 102.4
         1977 ...............    19.8                  97.2
         1978 ...............    12.8                  97.5
         1979 ...............    10.3                 100.6
         1980 ...............     6.0                 103.1
         1981 ...............     3.9                 106.0
         1982 ...............     4.4                 109.7
         1983 ...............     4.5                 111.9
         1984 (revised) .....     9.2                 117.9
         1985 (estimated) ...    20.9                 118.0
    
    source: bests aggregates and averages
    
         the combined ratio represents total insurance costs (losses 
    incurred plus expenses) compared to revenue from premiums: a 
    ratio below 100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 
    100 indicates a loss.
    
         the industrys 1985 results were highly unusual.  the 
    revenue gain was exceptional, and had insured losses grown at 
    their normal rate of most recent years - that is, a few points 
    above the inflation rate - a significant drop in the combined 
    ratio would have occurred.  but losses in 1985 didnt cooperate, 
    as they did not in 1984.  though inflation slowed considerably in 
    these years, insured losses perversely accelerated, growing by 
    16% in 1984 and by an even more startling 17% in 1985.  the 
    years growth in losses therefore exceeds the inflation rate by 
    over 13 percentage points, a modern record.
    
         catastrophes were not the culprit in this explosion of loss 
    cost.  true, there were an unusual number of hurricanes in 1985, 
    but the aggregate damage caused by all catastrophes in 1984 and 
    1985 was about 2% of premium volume, a not unusual proportion.  
    nor was there any burst in the number of insured autos, houses, 
    employers, or other kinds of exposure units.
    
         a partial explanation for the surge in the loss figures is 
    all the additions to reserves that the industry made in 1985.  as 
    results for the year were reported, the scene resembled a revival 
    meeting: shouting ive sinned, ive sinned, insurance managers 
    rushed forward to confess they had under reserved in earlier 
    years.  their corrections significantly affected 1985 loss 
    numbers.
    
         a more disturbing ingredient in the loss surge is the 
    acceleration in social or judicial inflation.  the insurers 
    ability to pay has assumed overwhelming importance with juries 
    and judges in the assessment of both liability and damages.  more 
    and more, the deep pocket is being sought and found, no matter 
    what the policy wording, the facts, or the precedents.
    
         this judicial inflation represents a wild card in the 
    industrys future, and makes forecasting difficult.  
    nevertheless, the short-term outlook is good.  premium growth 
    improved as 1985 went along (quarterly gains were an estimated 
    15%, 19%, 24%, and 22%) and, barring a supercatastrophe, the 
    industrys combined ratio should fall sharply in 1986.
    
         the profit improvement, however, is likely to be of short 
    duration.  two economic principles will see to that.  first, 
    commodity businesses achieve good levels of profitability only 
    when prices are fixed in some manner or when capacity is short.  
    second, managers quickly add to capacity when prospects start to 
    improve and capital is available.
    
         in my 1982 report to you, i discussed the commodity nature 
    of the insurance industry extensively.  the typical policyholder 
    does not differentiate between products but concentrates instead 
    on price.  for many decades a cartel-like procedure kept prices 
    up, but this arrangement has disappeared for good.  the insurance 
    product now is priced as any other commodity for which a free 
    market exists: when capacity is tight, prices will be set 
    remuneratively; otherwise, they will not be.
    
         capacity currently is tight in many lines of insurance - 
    though in this industry, unlike most, capacity is an attitudinal 
    concept, not a physical fact.  insurance managers can write 
    whatever amount of business they feel comfortable writing, 
    subject only to pressures applied by regulators and bests, the 
    industrys authoritative rating service.  the comfort level of 
    both managers and regulators is tied to capital.  more capital 
    means more comfort, which in turn means more capacity.  in the 
    typical commodity business, furthermore, such as aluminum or 
    steel, a long gestation precedes the birth of additional 
    capacity.  in the insurance industry, capital can be secured 
    instantly.  thus, any capacity shortage can be eliminated in 
    short order.
    
         thats exactly whats going on right now.  in 1985, about 15 
    insurers raised well over $3 billion, piling up capital so that 
    they can write all the business possible at the better prices now 
    available.  the capital-raising trend has accelerated 
    dramatically so far in 1986.
    
         if capacity additions continue at this rate, it wont be 
    long before serious price-cutting appears and next a fall in 
    profitability.  when the fall comes, it will be the fault of the 
    capital-raisers of 1985 and 1986, not the price-cutters of 198x. 
    (critics should be understanding, however: as was the case in our 
    textile example, the dynamics of capitalism cause each insurer to 
    make decisions that for itself appear sensible, but that 
    collectively slash profitability.)
    
         in past reports, i have told you that berkshires strong 
    capital position - the best in the industry - should one day 
    allow us to claim a distinct competitive advantage in the 
    insurance market.  with the tightening of the market, that day 
    arrived.  our premium volume more than tripled last year, 
    following a long period of stagnation.  berkshires financial 
    strength (and our record of maintaining unusual strength through 
    thick and thin) is now a major asset for us in securing good 
    business.
    
         we correctly foresaw a flight to quality by many large 
    buyers of insurance and reinsurance who belatedly recognized that 
    a policy is only an iou - and who, in 1985, could not collect on 
    many of their ious.  these buyers today are attracted to 
    berkshire because of its strong capital position.  but, in a 
    development we did not foresee, we also are finding buyers drawn 
    to us because our ability to insure substantial risks sets us 
    apart from the crowd.
    
         to understand this point, you need a few background facts 
    about large risks.  traditionally, many insurers have wanted to 
    write this kind of business.  however, their willingness to do so 
    has been almost always based upon reinsurance arrangements that 
    allow the insurer to keep just a small portion of the risk itself 
    while passing on (laying off) most of the risk to its 
    reinsurers.  imagine, for example, a directors and officers 
    (d & o) liability policy providing $25 million of coverage.  
    by various excess-of-loss reinsurance contracts, the company 
    issuing that policy might keep the liability for only the first 
    $1 million of any loss that occurs.  the liability for any loss 
    above that amount up to $24 million would be borne by the 
    reinsurers of the issuing insurer.  in trade parlance, a company 
    that issues large policies but retains relatively little of the 
    risk for its own account writes a large gross line but a small 
    net line.
    
         in any reinsurance arrangement, a key question is how the 
    premiums paid for the policy should be divided among the various 
    layers of risk.  in our d & o policy, for example. what part of 
    the premium received should be kept by the issuing company to 
    compensate it fairly for taking the first $1 million of risk and 
    how much should be passed on to the reinsurers to compensate them 
    fairly for taking the risk between $1 million and $25 million?
    
         one way to solve this problem might be deemed the patrick 
    henry approach: i have but one lamp by which my feet are guided, 
    and that is the lamp of experience. in other words, how much of 
    the total premium would reinsurers have needed in the past to 
    compensate them fairly for the losses they actually had to bear?
    
         unfortunately, the lamp of experience has always provided 
    imperfect illumination for reinsurers because so much of their 
    business is long-tail, meaning it takes many years before they 
    know what their losses are.  lately, however, the light has not 
    only been dim but also grossly misleading in the images it has 
    revealed.  that is, the courts tendency to grant awards that are 
    both huge and lacking in precedent makes reinsurers usual 
    extrapolations or inferences from past data a formula for 
    disaster.  out with patrick henry and in with pogo: the future 
    aint what it used to be.
    
         the burgeoning uncertainties of the business, coupled with 
    the entry into reinsurance of many unsophisticated participants, 
    worked in recent years in favor of issuing companies writing a 
    small net line: they were able to keep a far greater percentage 
    of the premiums than the risk.  by doing so, the issuing 
    companies sometimes made money on business that was distinctly 
    unprofitable for the issuing and reinsuring companies combined. 
    (this result was not necessarily by intent: issuing companies 
    generally knew no more than reinsurers did about the ultimate 
    costs that would be experienced at higher layers of risk.) 
    inequities of this sort have been particularly pronounced in 
    lines of insurance in which much change was occurring and losses 
    were soaring; e.g., professional malpractice, d & 0, products 
    liability, etc.  given these circumstances, it is not surprising 
    that issuing companies remained enthusiastic about writing 
    business long after premiums became woefully inadequate on a 
    gross basis.
    
         an example of just how disparate results have been for 
    issuing companies versus their reinsurers is provided by the 1984 
    financials of one of the leaders in large and unusual risks.  in 
    that year the company wrote about $6 billion of business and kept 
    around $2 1/2 billion of the premiums, or about 40%.  it gave the 
    remaining $3 1/2 billion to reinsurers.  on the part of the 
    business kept, the companys underwriting loss was less than $200 
    million - an excellent result in that year.  meanwhile, the part 
    laid off produced a loss of over $1.5 billion for the reinsurers.  
    thus, the issuing company wrote at a combined ratio of well under 
    110 while its reinsurers, participating in precisely the same 
    policies, came in considerably over 140.  this result was not 
    attributable to natural catastrophes; it came from run-of-the-
    mill insurance losses (occurring, however, in surprising 
    frequency and size).  the issuing companys 1985 report is not 
    yet available, but i would predict it will show that dramatically 
    unbalanced results continued.
    
         a few years such as this, and even slow-witted reinsurers 
    can lose interest, particularly in explosive lines where the 
    proper split in premium between issuer and reinsurer remains 
    impossible to even roughly estimate.  the behavior of reinsurers 
    finally becomes like that of mark twains cat: having once sat on 
    a hot stove, it never did so again - but it never again sat on a 
    cold stove, either.  reinsurers have had so many unpleasant 
    surprises in long-tail casualty lines that many have decided 
    (probably correctly) to give up the game entirely, regardless of 
    price inducements.  consequently, there has been a dramatic pull-
    back of reinsurance capacity in certain important lines.
    
         this development has left many issuing companies under 
    pressure.  they can no longer commit their reinsurers, time after 
    time, for tens of millions per policy as they so easily could do 
    only a year or two ago, and they do not have the capital and/or 
    appetite to take on large risks for their own account.  for many 
    issuing companies, gross capacity has shrunk much closer to net 
    capacity - and that is often small, indeed.
    
         at berkshire we have never played the lay-it-off-at-a-profit 
    game and, until recently, that put us at a severe disadvantage in 
    certain lines.  now the tables are turned: we have the 
    underwriting capability whereas others do not.  if we believe the 
    price to be right, we are willing to write a net line larger than 
    that of any but the largest insurers.  for instance, we are 
    perfectly willing to risk losing $10 million of our own money on 
    a single event, as long as we believe that the price is right and 
    that the risk of loss is not significantly correlated with other 
    risks we are insuring.  very few insurers are willing to risk 
    half that much on single events - although, just a short while 
    ago, many were willing to lose five or ten times that amount as 
    long as virtually all of the loss was for the account of their 
    reinsurers.
    
         in mid-1985 our largest insurance company, national 
    indemnity company, broadcast its willingness to underwrite large 
    risks by running an ad in three issues of an insurance weekly.  
    the ad solicited policies of only large size: those with a 
    minimum premium of $1 million.  this ad drew a remarkable 600 
    replies and ultimately produced premiums totaling about $50 
    million. (hold the applause: its all long-tail business and it 
    will be at least five years before we know whether this marketing 
    success was also an underwriting success.) today, our insurance 
    subsidiaries continue to be sought out by brokers searching for 
    large net capacity.
    
         as i have said, this period of tightness will pass; insurers 
    and reinsurers will return to underpricing.  but for a year or 
    two we should do well in several segments of our insurance 
    business.  mike goldberg has made many important improvements in 
    the operation (prior mismanagement by your chairman having 
    provided him ample opportunity to do so).  he has been 
    particularly successful recently in hiring young managers with 
    excellent potential.  they will have a chance to show their stuff 
    in 1986.
    
         our combined ratio has improved - from 134 in 1984 to 111 in 
    1985 - but continues to reflect past misdeeds.  last year i told 
    you of the major mistakes i had made in loss-reserving, and 
    promised i would update you annually on loss-development figures.  
    naturally, i made this promise thinking my future record would be 
    much improved.  so far this has not been the case.  details on 
    last years loss development are on pages 50-52.  they reveal 
    significant underreserving at the end of 1984, as they did in the 
    several years preceding.
    
         the only bright spot in this picture is that virtually all 
    of the underreserving revealed in 1984 occurred in the 
    reinsurance area - and there, in very large part, in a few 
    contracts that were discontinued several years ago.  this 
    explanation, however, recalls all too well a story told me many 
    years ago by the then chairman of general reinsurance company.  
    he said that every year his managers told him that except for 
    the florida hurricane or except for midwestern tornadoes, they 
    would have had a terrific year.  finally he called the group 
    together and suggested that they form a new operation - the 
    except-for insurance company - in which they would henceforth 
    place all of the business that they later wouldnt want to count.
    
         in any business, insurance or otherwise, except for should 
    be excised from the lexicon.  if you are going to play the game, 
    you must count the runs scored against you in all nine innings.  
    any manager who consistently says except for and then reports 
    on the lessons he has learned from his mistakes may be missing 
    the only important lesson - namely, that the real mistake is not 
    the act, but the actor.
    
         inevitably, of course, business errors will occur and the 
    wise manager will try to find the proper lessons in them.  but 
    the trick is to learn most lessons from the experiences of 
    others.  managers who have learned much from personal experience 
    in the past usually are destined to learn much from personal 
    experience in the future.
    
         geico, 38%-owned by berkshire, reported an excellent year in 
    1985 in premium growth and investment results, but a poor year - 
    by its lofty standards - in underwriting.  private passenger auto 
    and homeowners insurance were the only important lines in the 
    industry whose results deteriorated significantly during the 
    year.  geico did not escape the trend, although its record was 
    far better than that of virtually all its major competitors.
    
         jack byrne left geico at mid-year to head firemans fund, 
    leaving behind bill snyder as chairman and lou simpson as vice 
    chairman.  jacks performance in reviving geico from near-
    bankruptcy was truly extraordinary, and his work resulted in 
    enormous gains for berkshire.  we owe him a great deal for that.
    
         we are equally indebted to jack for an achievement that 
    eludes most outstanding leaders: he found managers to succeed him 
    who have talents as valuable as his own.  by his skill in 
    identifying, attracting and developing bill and lou, jack 
    extended the benefits of his managerial stewardship well beyond 
    his tenure.
    
    **firemans fund quota-share contract**
    
         never one to let go of a meal ticket, we have followed jack 
    byrne to firemans fund (ffic) where he is chairman and ceo of 
    the holding company.
    
         on september 1, 1985 we became a 7% participant in all of 
    the business in force of the ffic group, with the exception of 
    reinsurance they write for unaffiliated companies.  our contract 
    runs for four years, and provides that our losses and costs will 
    be proportionate to theirs throughout the contract period.  if 
    there is no extension, we will thereafter have no participation 
    in any ongoing business.  however, for a great many years in the 
    future, we will be reimbursing ffic for our 7% of the losses that 
    occurred in the september 1, 1985 - august 31, 1989 period.
    
         under the contract ffic remits premiums to us promptly and 
    we reimburse ffic promptly for expenses and losses it has paid.  
    thus, funds generated by our share of the business are held by us 
    for investment.  as part of the deal, im available to ffic for 
    consultation about general investment strategy.  im not 
    involved, however, in specific investment decisions of ffic, nor 
    is berkshire involved in any aspect of the companys underwriting 
    activities.
    
         currently ffic is doing about $3 billion of business, and it 
    will probably do more as rates rise.  the companys september 1, 
    1985 unearned premium reserve was $1.324 billion, and it 
    therefore transferred 7% of this, or $92.7 million, to us at 
    initiation of the contract.  we concurrently paid them $29.4 
    million representing the underwriting expenses that they had 
    incurred on the transferred premium.  all of the ffic business is 
    written by national indemnity company, but two-sevenths of it is 
    passed along to wesco-financial insurance company (wes-fic), a 
    new company organized by our 80%-owned subsidiary, wesco 
    financial corporation.  charlie munger has some interesting 
    comments about wes-fic and the reinsurance business on pages 60-
    62.
    
         to the insurance segment tables on page 41, we have added a 
    new line, labeled major quota share contracts.  the 1985 results 
    of the ffic contract are reported there, though the newness of 
    the arrangement makes these results only very rough 
    approximations.
    
    after the end of the year, we secured another quota-share 
    contract, whose 1986 volume should be over $50 million.  we hope 
    to develop more of this business, and industry conditions suggest 
    that we could: a significant number of companies are generating 
    more business than they themselves can prudently handle.  our 
    financial strength makes us an attractive partner for such 
    companies.
    
    **marketable securities**
    
    we show below our 1985 yearend net holdings in marketable 
    equities.  all positions with a market value over $25 million are 
    listed, and the interests attributable to minority shareholders 
    of wesco and nebraska furniture mart are excluded.
    _
    no. of shares                                           cost       market
    -------------                                        ----------  ----------
                                                             (000s omitted)_
      1,036,461    affiliated publications, inc. .......   $ 3,516    $  55,710
        900,800    american broadcasting companies, inc.    54,435      108,997
      2,350,922    beatrice companies, inc. ............   106,811      108,142
      6,850,000    geico corporation ...................    45,713      595,950
      2,379,200    handy & harman ......................    27,318       43,718
        847,788    time, inc. ..........................    20,385       52,669
      1,727,765    the washington post company .........     9,731      205,172
                                                         ----------  ----------
                                                           267,909    1,170,358
                   all other common stockholdings ......     7,201       27,963
                                                         ----------  ----------
                   total common stocks                    $275,110   $1,198,321
                                                         ==========  ==========
    
         we mentioned earlier that in the past decade the investment 
    environment has changed from one in which great businesses were 
    totally unappreciated to one in which they are appropriately 
    recognized.  the washington post company (wpc) provides an 
    excellent example.
    
         we bought all of our wpc holdings in mid-1973 at a price of 
    not more than one-fourth of the then per-share business value of 
    the enterprise.  calculating the price/value ratio required no 
    unusual insights.  most security analysts, media brokers, and 
    media executives would have estimated wpcs intrinsic business 
    value at $400 to $500 million just as we did.  and its $100 
    million stock market valuation was published daily for all to 
    see.  our advantage, rather, was attitude: we had learned from 
    ben graham that the key to successful investing was the purchase 
    of shares in good businesses when market prices were at a large 
    discount from underlying business values.
    
         most institutional investors in the early 1970s, on the 
    other hand, regarded business value as of only minor relevance 
    when they were deciding the prices at which they would buy or 
    sell.  this now seems hard to believe.  however, these 
    institutions were then under the spell of academics at 
    prestigious business schools who were preaching a newly-fashioned 
    theory: the stock market was totally efficient, and therefore 
    calculations of business value - and even thought, itself - were 
    of no importance in investment activities. (we are enormously 
    indebted to those academics: what could be more advantageous in 
    an intellectual contest - whether it be bridge, chess, or stock 
    selection than to have opponents who have been taught that 
    thinking is a waste of energy?)
    
         through 1973 and 1974, wpc continued to do fine as a 
    business, and intrinsic value grew.  nevertheless, by yearend 
    1974 our wpc holding showed a loss of about 25%, with market 
    value at $8 million against our cost of $10.6 million.  what we 
    had thought ridiculously cheap a year earlier had become a good 
    bit cheaper as the market, in its infinite wisdom, marked wpc 
    stock down to well below 20 cents on the dollar of intrinsic 
    value.
    
         you know the happy outcome.  kay graham, ceo of wpc, had the 
    brains and courage to repurchase large quantities of stock for 
    the company at those bargain prices, as well as the managerial 
    skills necessary to dramatically increase business values.  
    meanwhile, investors began to recognize the exceptional economics 
    of the business and the stock price moved closer to underlying 
    value.  thus, we experienced a triple dip: the companys business 
    value soared upward, per-share business value increased 
    considerably faster because of stock repurchases and, with a 
    narrowing of the discount, the stock price outpaced the gain in 
    per-share business value.
    
         we hold all of the wpc shares we bought in 1973, except for 
    those sold back to the company in 1985s proportionate 
    redemption.  proceeds from the redemption plus yearend market 
    value of our holdings total $221 million.
    
         if we had invested our $10.6 million in any of a half-dozen 
    media companies that were investment favorites in mid-1973, the 
    value of our holdings at yearend would have been in the area of 
    $40 - $60 million.  our gain would have far exceeded the gain in 
    the general market, an outcome reflecting the exceptional 
    economics of the media business.  the extra $160 million or so we 
    gained through ownership of wpc came, in very large part, from 
    the superior nature of the managerial decisions made by kay as 
    compared to those made by managers of most media companies.  her 
    stunning business success has in large part gone unreported but 
    among berkshire shareholders it should not go unappreciated.
    
         our capital cities purchase, described in the next section, 
    required me to leave the wpc board early in 1986.  but we intend 
    to hold indefinitely whatever wpc stock fcc rules allow us to.  
    we expect wpcs business values to grow at a reasonable rate, and 
    we know that management is both able and shareholder-oriented.  
    however, the market now values the company at over $1.8 billion, 
    and there is no way that the value can progress from that level 
    at a rate anywhere close to the rate possible when the companys 
    valuation was only $100 million.  because market prices have also 
    been bid up for our other holdings, we face the same vastly-
    reduced potential throughout our portfolio.
    
         you will notice that we had a significant holding in 
    beatrice companies at yearend.  this is a short-term arbitrage 
    holding - in effect, a parking place for money (though not a 
    totally safe one, since deals sometimes fall through and create 
    substantial losses).  we sometimes enter the arbitrage field when 
    we have more money than ideas, but only to participate in 
    announced mergers and sales.  we would be a lot happier if the 
    funds currently employed on this short-term basis found a long-
    term home.  at the moment, however, prospects are bleak.
    
         at yearend our insurance subsidiaries had about $400 million 
    in tax-exempt bonds, of which $194 million at amortized cost were 
    issues of washington public power supply system (wppss) 
    projects 1, 2, and 3. 1 discussed this position fully last year, 
    and explained why we would not disclose further purchases or 
    sales until well after the fact (adhering to the policy we follow 
    on stocks).  our unrealized gain on the wppss bonds at yearend 
    was $62 million, perhaps one-third arising from the upward 
    movement of bonds generally, and the remainder from a more 
    positive investor view toward wppss 1, 2, and 3s.  annual tax-
    exempt income from our wppss issues is about $30 million.
    
    **capital cities/abc, inc.**
    
         right after yearend, berkshire purchased 3 million shares of 
    capital cities/abc, inc. (cap cities) at $172.50 per share, the 
    market price of such shares at the time the commitment was made 
    early in march, 1985.  ive been on record for many years about 
    the management of cap cities: i think it is the best of any 
    publicly-owned company in the country.  and tom murphy and dan 
    burke are not only great managers, they are precisely the sort of 
    fellows that you would want your daughter to marry.  it is a 
    privilege to be associated with them - and also a lot of fun, as 
    any of you who know them will understand.
    
         our purchase of stock helped cap cities finance the $3.5 
    billion acquisition of american broadcasting companies.  for cap 
    cities, abc is a major undertaking whose economics are likely to 
    be unexciting over the next few years.  this bothers us not an 
    iota; we can be very patient. (no matter how great the talent or 
    effort, some things just take time: you cant produce a baby in 
    one month by getting nine women pregnant.)
    
         as evidence of our confidence, we have executed an unusual 
    agreement: for an extended period tom, as ceo (or dan, should he 
    be ceo) votes our stock.  this arrangement was initiated by 
    charlie and me, not by tom.  we also have restricted ourselves in 
    various ways regarding sale of our shares.  the object of these 
    restrictions is to make sure that our block does not get sold to 
    anyone who is a large holder (or intends to become a large 
    holder) without the approval of management, an arrangement 
    similar to ones we initiated some years ago at geico and 
    washington post.
    
         since large blocks frequently command premium prices, some 
    might think we have injured berkshire financially by creating 
    such restrictions.  our view is just the opposite.  we feel the 
    long-term economic prospects for these businesses - and, thus, 
    for ourselves as owners - are enhanced by the arrangements.  with 
    them in place, the first-class managers with whom we have aligned 
    ourselves can focus their efforts entirely upon running the 
    businesses and maximizing long-term values for owners.  certainly 
    this is much better than having those managers distracted by 
    revolving-door capitalists hoping to put the company in play. 
    (of course, some managers place their own interests above those 
    of the company and its owners and deserve to be shaken up - but, 
    in making investments, we try to steer clear of this type.)
    
         today, corporate instability is an inevitable consequence of 
    widely-diffused ownership of voting stock.  at any time a major 
    holder can surface, usually mouthing reassuring rhetoric but 
    frequently harboring uncivil intentions.  by circumscribing our 
    blocks of stock as we often do, we intend to promote stability 
    where it otherwise might be lacking.  that kind of certainty, 
    combined with a good manager and a good business, provides 
    excellent soil for a rich financial harvest.  thats the economic 
    case for our arrangements.
    
         the human side is just as important.  we dont want managers 
    we like and admire - and who have welcomed a major financial 
    commitment by us - to ever lose any sleep wondering whether 
    surprises might occur because of our large ownership.  i have 
    told them there will be no surprises, and these agreements put 
    berkshires signature where my mouth is.  that signature also 
    means the managers have a corporate commitment and therefore need 
    not worry if my personal participation in berkshires affairs 
    ends prematurely (a term i define as any age short of three 
    digits).
    
         our cap cities purchase was made at a full price, reflecting 
    the very considerable enthusiasm for both media stocks and media 
    properties that has developed in recent years (and that, in the 
    case of some property purchases, has approached a mania). its no 
    field for bargains.  however, our cap cities investment allies us 
    with an exceptional combination of properties and people - and we 
    like the opportunity to participate in size.
    
         of course, some of you probably wonder why we are now buying 
    cap cities at $172.50 per share given that your chairman, in a 
    characteristic burst of brilliance, sold berkshires holdings in 
    the same company at $43 per share in 1978-80.  anticipating your 
    question, i spent much of 1985 working on a snappy answer that 
    would reconcile these acts.
    
         a little more time, please.
    
    **acquisition of scott & fetzer**
    
         right after yearend we acquired the scott & fetzer company 
    (scott fetzer) of cleveland for about $320 million. (in 
    addition, about $90 million of pre-existing scott fetzer debt 
    remains in place.) in the next section of this report i describe 
    the sort of businesses that we wish to buy for berkshire.  scott 
    fetzer is a prototype - understandable, large, well-managed, a 
    good earner.
    
         the company has sales of about $700 million derived from 17 
    businesses, many leaders in their fields.  return on invested 
    capital is good to excellent for most of these businesses.  some 
    well-known products are kirby home-care systems, campbell 
    hausfeld air compressors, and wayne burners and water pumps.
    
         world book, inc. - accounting for about 40% of scott 
    fetzers sales and a bit more of its income - is by far the 
    companys largest operation.  it also is by far the leader in its 
    industry, selling more than twice as many encyclopedia sets 
    annually as its nearest competitor.  in fact, it sells more sets 
    in the u.s. than its four biggest competitors combined.
    
         charlie and i have a particular interest in the world book 
    operation because we regard its encyclopedia as something 
    special.  ive been a fan (and user) for 25 years, and now have 
    grandchildren consulting the sets just as my children did.  world 
    book is regularly rated the most useful encyclopedia by teachers, 
    librarians and consumer buying guides.  yet it sells for less 
    than any of its major competitors. childcraft, another world 
    book, inc. product, offers similar value.  this combination of 
    exceptional products and modest prices at world book, inc. helped 
    make us willing to pay the price demanded for scott fetzer, 
    despite declining results for many companies in the direct-
    selling industry.
    
         an equal attraction at scott fetzer is ralph schey, its ceo 
    for nine years.  when ralph took charge, the company had 31 
    businesses, the result of an acquisition spree in the 1960s.  he 
    disposed of many that did not fit or had limited profit 
    potential, but his focus on rationalizing the original potpourri 
    was not so intense that he passed by world book when it became 
    available for purchase in 1978.  ralphs operating and capital-
    allocation record is superb, and we are delighted to be 
    associated with him.
    
         the history of the scott fetzer acquisition is interesting, 
    marked by some zigs and zags before we became involved.  the 
    company had been an announced candidate for purchase since early 
    1984.  a major investment banking firm spent many months 
    canvassing scores of prospects, evoking interest from several.  
    finally, in mid-1985 a plan of sale, featuring heavy 
    participation by an esop (employee stock ownership plan), was 
    approved by shareholders.  however, as difficulty in closing 
    followed, the plan was scuttled.
    
         i had followed this corporate odyssey through the 
    newspapers.  on october 10, well after the esop deal had fallen 
    through, i wrote a short letter to ralph, whom i did not know.  i 
    said we admired the companys record and asked if he might like 
    to talk.  charlie and i met ralph for dinner in chicago on 
    october 22 and signed an acquisition contract the following week.
    
         the scott fetzer acquisition, plus major growth in our 
    insurance business, should push revenues above $2 billion in 
    1986, more than double those of 1985.
    
    **miscellaneous**
    
         the scott fetzer purchase illustrates our somewhat haphazard 
    approach to acquisitions.  we have no master strategy, no 
    corporate planners delivering us insights about socioeconomic 
    trends, and no staff to investigate a multitude of ideas 
    presented by promoters and intermediaries.  instead, we simply 
    hope that something sensible comes along - and, when it does, we 
    act.
    
         to give fate a helping hand, we again repeat our regular 
    business wanted ad.  the only change from last years copy is 
    in (1): because we continue to want any acquisition we make to 
    have a measurable impact on berkshires financial results, we 
    have raised our minimum profit requirement.
    
         heres what were looking for:
         (1) large purchases (at least $10 million of after-tax 
             earnings),
         (2) demonstrated consistent earning power (future 
             projections are of little interest to us, nor are 
             turn-around situations),
         (3) businesses earning good returns on equity while 
             employing little or no debt,
         (4) management in place (we cant supply it),
         (5) simple businesses (if theres lots of technology, we 
             wont understand it),
         (6) an offering price (we dont want to waste our time 
             or that of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, 
             about a transaction when price is unknown).
     
         we will not engage in unfriendly takeovers.  we can promise 
    complete confidentiality and a very fast answer - customarily 
    within five minutes - as to whether were interested.  we prefer 
    to buy for cash, but will consider issuance of stock when we 
    receive as much in intrinsic business value as we give.  indeed, 
    following recent advances in the price of berkshire stock, 
    transactions involving stock issuance may be quite feasible.  we 
    invite potential sellers to check us out by contacting people 
    with whom we have done business in the past.  for the right 
    business - and the right people - we can provide a good home.
    
         on the other hand, we frequently get approached about 
    acquisitions that dont come close to meeting our tests: new 
    ventures, turnarounds, auction-like sales, and the ever-popular 
    (among brokers) im-sure-something-will-work-out-if-you-people-
    get-to-know-each-other.  none of these attracts us in the least.
    
                               *  *  *
     
         besides being interested in the purchases of entire 
    businesses as described above, we are also interested in the 
    negotiated purchase of large, but not controlling, blocks of 
    stock, as in our cap cities purchase.  such purchases appeal to 
    us only when we are very comfortable with both the economics of 
    the business and the ability and integrity of the people running 
    the operation.  we prefer large transactions: in the unusual case 
    we might do something as small as $50 million (or even smaller), 
    but our preference is for commitments many times that size.
    
                               *  *  *
    
         about 96.8% of all eligible shares participated in 
    berkshires 1985 shareholder-designated contributions program.  
    total contributions made through the program were $4 million, and 
    1,724 charities were recipients.  we conducted a plebiscite last 
    year in order to get your views about this program, as well as 
    about our dividend policy.  (recognizing that its possible to 
    influence the answers to a question by the framing of it, we 
    attempted to make the wording of ours as neutral as possible.) we 
    present the ballot and the results in the appendix on page 69. i 
    think its fair to summarize your response as highly supportive 
    of present policies and your group preference - allowing for the 
    tendency of people to vote for the status quo - to be for 
    increasing the annual charitable commitment as our asset values 
    build.
    
         we urge new shareholders to read the description of our 
    shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on 
    pages 66 and 67.  if you wish to participate in future programs, 
    we strongly urge that you immediately make sure that your shares 
    are registered in the name of the actual owner, not in street 
    name or nominee name.  shares not so registered on september 30, 
    1986 will be ineligible for the 1986 program.
     
                               *  *  *
    
         five years ago we were required by the bank holding company 
    act of 1969 to dispose of our holdings in the illinois national 
    bank and trust company of rockford, illinois.  our method of 
    doing so was unusual: we announced an exchange ratio between 
    stock of rockford bancorp inc. (the illinois nationals holding 
    company) and stock of berkshire, and then let each of our 
    shareholders - except me - make the decision as to whether to 
    exchange all, part, or none of his berkshire shares for rockford 
    shares.  i took the rockford stock that was left over and thus my 
    own holding in rockford was determined by your decisions.  at the 
    time i said, this technique embodies the worlds oldest and most 
    elementary system of fairly dividing an object.  just as when you 
    were a child and one person cut the cake and the other got first 
    choice, i have tried to cut the company fairly, but you get first 
    choice as to which piece you want.
    
         last fall illinois national was sold.  when rockfords 
    liquidation is completed, its shareholders will have received 
    per-share proceeds about equal to berkshires per-share intrinsic 
    value at the time of the banks sale.  im pleased that this 
    five-year result indicates that the division of the cake was 
    reasonably equitable.
     
         last year i put in a plug for our annual meeting, and you 
    took me up on the invitation.  over 250 of our more than 3,000 
    registered shareholders showed up.  those attending behaved just 
    as those present in previous years, asking the sort of questions 
    you would expect from intelligent and interested owners.  you can 
    attend a great many annual meetings without running into a crowd 
    like ours. (lester maddox, when governor of georgia, was 
    criticized regarding the states abysmal prison system.  the 
    solution, he said, is simple.  all we need is a better class of 
    prisoners. upgrading annual meetings works the same way.)
    
         i hope you come to this years meeting, which will be held 
    on may 20 in omaha.  there will be only one change: after 48 
    years of allegiance to another soft drink, your chairman, in an 
    unprecedented display of behavioral flexibility, has converted to 
    the new cherry coke.  henceforth, it will be the official drink 
    of the berkshire hathaway annual meeting.
    
         and bring money: mrs. b promises to have bargains galore if 
    you will pay her a visit at the nebraska furniture mart after the 
    meeting.
    
    
                                               warren e. buffett
                                               chairman of the board
    
    march 4, 1986
    
    

