**

berkshire hathaway inc.**

    
    
    
    
    
    **to the shareholders of berkshire hathaway inc.:
    **
         our gain in net worth during 1986 was $492.5 million, or 
    26.1%.  over the last 22 years (that is, since present management 
    took over), our per-share book value has grown from $19.46 to 
    $2,073.06, or 23.3% compounded annually.  both the numerator and 
    denominator are important in the per-share book value 
    calculation: during the 22-year period our corporate net worth 
    has increased 10,600% while shares outstanding have increased 
    less than 1%.
    
         in past reports i have noted that book value at most 
    companies differs widely from intrinsic business value - the 
    number that really counts for owners.  in our own case, however, 
    book value has served for more than a decade as a reasonable if 
    somewhat conservative proxy for business value.  that is, our 
    business value has moderately exceeded our book value, with the 
    ratio between the two remaining fairly steady.
    
         the good news is that in 1986 our percentage gain in 
    business value probably exceeded the book value gain.  i say 
    "probably" because business value is a soft number: in our own 
    case, two equally well-informed observers might make judgments 
    more than 10% apart.
    
         a large measure of our improvement in business value 
    relative to book value reflects the outstanding performance of 
    key managers at our major operating businesses.  these managers - 
    the blumkins, mike goldberg, the heldmans, chuck huggins, stan 
    lipsey, and ralph schey - have over the years improved the 
    earnings of their businesses dramatically while, except in the 
    case of insurance, utilizing little additional capital.  this 
    accomplishment builds economic value, or "goodwill," that does 
    not show up in the net worth figure on our balance sheet, nor in 
    our per-share book value.  in 1986 this unrecorded gain was 
    substantial.
    
         so much for the good news.  the bad news is that my 
    performance did not match that of our managers.  while they were 
    doing a superb job in running our businesses, i was unable to 
    skillfully deploy much of the capital they generated.
     
         charlie munger, our vice chairman, and i really have only 
    two jobs.  one is to attract and keep outstanding managers to run 
    our various operations.  this hasnt been all that difficult.  
    usually the managers came with the companies we bought, having 
    demonstrated their talents throughout careers that spanned a wide 
    variety of business circumstances.  they were managerial stars 
    long before they knew us, and our main contribution has been to 
    not get in their way.  this approach seems elementary: if my job 
    were to manage a golf team - and if jack nicklaus or arnold 
    palmer were willing to play for me - neither would get a lot of 
    directives from me about how to swing.
    
         some of our key managers are independently wealthy (we hope 
    they all become so), but that poses no threat to their continued 
    interest: they work because they love what they do and relish the 
    thrill of outstanding performance.  they unfailingly think like 
    owners (the highest compliment we can pay a manager) and find all 
    aspects of their business absorbing.
    
         (our prototype for occupational fervor is the catholic 
    tailor who used his small savings of many years to finance a 
    pilgrimage to the vatican.  when he returned, his parish held a 
    special meeting to get his first-hand account of the pope.  "tell 
    us," said the eager faithful, "just what sort of fellow is he?" 
    our hero wasted no words: "hes a forty-four, medium.")
    
         charlie and i know that the right players will make almost 
    any team manager look good.  we subscribe to the philosophy of 
    ogilvy & mathers founding genius, david ogilvy: "if each of us 
    hires people who are smaller than we are, we shall become a 
    company of dwarfs.  but, if each of us hires people who are 
    bigger than we are, we shall become a company of giants."
    
         a by-product of our managerial style is the ability it gives 
    us to easily expand berkshires activities.  weve read 
    management treatises that specify exactly how many people should 
    report to any one executive, but they make little sense to us.  
    when you have able managers of high character running businesses 
    about which they are passionate, you can have a dozen or more 
    reporting to you and still have time for an afternoon nap.  
    conversely, if you have even one person reporting to you who is 
    deceitful, inept or uninterested, you will find yourself with 
    more than you can handle.  charlie and i could work with double 
    the number of managers we now have, so long as they had the rare 
    qualities of the present ones.
    
         we intend to continue our practice of working only with 
    people whom we like and admire.  this policy not only maximizes 
    our chances for good results, it also ensures us an 
    extraordinarily good time.  on the other hand, working with 
    people who cause your stomach to churn seems much like marrying 
    for money - probably a bad idea under any circumstances, but 
    absolute madness if you are already rich.
    
         the second job charlie and i must handle is the allocation 
    of capital, which at berkshire is a considerably more important 
    challenge than at most companies.  three factors make that so: we 
    earn more money than average; we retain all that we earn; and, we 
    are fortunate to have operations that, for the most part, require 
    little incremental capital to remain competitive and to grow.  
    obviously, the future results of a business earning 23% annually 
    and retaining it all are far more affected by todays capital 
    allocations than are the results of a business earning 10% and 
    distributing half of that to shareholders.  if our retained 
    earnings - and those of our major investees, geico and capital 
    cities/abc, inc. - are employed in an unproductive manner, the 
    economics of berkshire will deteriorate very quickly.  in a 
    company adding only, say, 5% to net worth annually, capital-
    allocation decisions, though still important, will change the 
    companys economics far more slowly.
    
         capital allocation at berkshire was tough work in 1986.  we 
    did make one business acquisition - the fechheimer bros.  
    company, which we will discuss in a later section.  fechheimer is 
    a company with excellent economics, run by exactly the kind of 
    people with whom we enjoy being associated.  but it is relatively 
    small, utilizing only about 2% of berkshires net worth.
    
         meanwhile, we had no new ideas in the marketable equities 
    field, an area in which once, only a few years ago, we could 
    readily employ large sums in outstanding businesses at very 
    reasonable prices.  so our main capital allocation moves in 1986 
    were to pay off debt and stockpile funds.  neither is a fate 
    worse than death, but they do not inspire us to do handsprings 
    either.  if charlie and i were to draw blanks for a few years in 
    our capital-allocation endeavors, berkshires rate of growth 
    would slow significantly.
    
         we will continue to look for operating businesses that meet 
    our tests and, with luck, will acquire such a business every 
    couple of years.  but an acquisition will have to be large if it 
    is to help our performance materially.  under current stock 
    market conditions, we have little hope of finding equities to buy 
    for our insurance companies.  markets will change significantly - 
    you can be sure of that and some day we will again get our turn 
    at bat.  however, we havent the faintest idea when that might 
    happen.
    
         it cant be said too often (although im sure you feel ive 
    tried) that, even under favorable conditions, our returns are 
    certain to drop substantially because of our enlarged size.  we 
    have told you that we hope to average a return of 15% on equity 
    and we maintain that hope, despite some negative tax law changes 
    described in a later section of this report.  if we are to 
    achieve this rate of return, our net worth must increase $7.2 
    billion in the next ten years.  a gain of that magnitude will be 
    possible only if, before too long, we come up with a few very big 
    (and good) ideas.  charlie and i cant promise results, but we do 
    promise you that we will keep our efforts focused on our goals.
    
    **sources of reported earnings
    **
         the table on the next page shows the major sources of 
    berkshires reported earnings.  this table differs in several 
    ways from the one presented last year.  we have added four new 
    lines of business because of the scott fetzer and fechheimer 
    acquisitions. in the case of scott fetzer, the two major units 
    acquired were world book and kirby, and each is presented 
    separately.  fourteen other businesses of scott fetzer are 
    aggregated in scott fetzer - diversified manufacturing.  sf 
    financial group, a credit company holding both world book and 
    kirby receivables, is included in "other." this year, because 
    berkshire is so much larger, we also have eliminated separate 
    reporting for several of our smaller businesses.
    
         in the table, amortization of goodwill is not charged 
    against the specific businesses but, for reasons outlined in the 
    appendix to my letter in the 1983 annual report, is aggregated as 
    a separate item. (a compendium of earlier letters, including the 
    goodwill discussion, is available upon request.) both the scott 
    fetzer and fechheimer acquisitions created accounting goodwill, 
    which is why the amortization charge for goodwill increased in 
    1986.
    
         additionally, the scott fetzer acquisition required other 
    major purchase-price accounting adjustments, as prescribed by 
    generally accepted accounting principles (gaap).  the gaap 
    figures, of course, are the ones used in our consolidated 
    financial statements.  but, in our view, the gaap figures are not 
    necessarily the most useful ones for investors or managers.  
    therefore, the figures shown for specific operating units are 
    earnings before purchase-price adjustments are taken into 
    account.  in effect, these are the earnings that would have been 
    reported by the businesses if we had not purchased them.
    
         a discussion of our reasons for preferring this form of 
    presentation is in the appendix to this letter.  this appendix 
    will never substitute for a steamy novel and definitely is not 
    required reading.  however, i know that among our 6,000 
    shareholders there are those who are thrilled by my essays on 
    accounting - and i hope that both of you enjoy the appendix.
    
         in the business segment data on pages 41-43 and in the 
    managements discussion section on pages 45-49, you will find 
    much additional information about our businesses.  i urge you to 
    read those sections, as well as charlie mungers letter to wesco 
    shareholders, describing the various businesses of that 
    subsidiary, which starts on page 50.
    _
                                                   (000s omitted) 
                                     ------------------------------------------
                                                             berkshire's share 
                                                              of net earnings 
                                                             (after taxes and 
                                       pre-tax earnings     minority interests)
                                     -------------------    -------------------
                                       1986       1985        1986       1985 
    _                                 --------   --------    --------   --------
    operating earnings: 
      insurance group: 
        underwriting ............... $(55,844)  $(44,230)   $(29,864)  $(23,569)
        net investment income ......  107,143     95,217      96,440     79,716
      buffalo news .................   34,736     29,921      16,918     14,580
      fechheimer (acquired 6/3/86)      8,400      ---         3,792      ---
      kirby ........................   20,218      ---        10,508      ---
      nebraska furniture mart ......   17,685     12,686       7,192      5,181
      scott fetzer - diversified mfg.  25,358      ---        13,354      ---
      sees candies ................   30,347     28,989      15,176     14,558
      wesco - other than insurance      5,542     16,018       5,550      9,684
      world book ...................   21,978      ---        11,670      ---
      amortization of goodwill         (2,555)    (1,475)     (2,555)    (1,475)
      other purchase-price 
         accounting charges ........  (10,033)     ---       (11,031)     ---
      interest on debt and 
         pre-payment penalty .......  (23,891)   (14,415)    (12,213)    (7,288)
      shareholder-designated 
         contributions .............   (3,997)    (4,006)     (2,158)    (2,164)
      other ........................   20,770      6,744       8,685      3,725
                                     --------   --------    --------   --------
    operating earnings .............  195,857    125,449     131,464     92,948
    special general foods 
       distribution ................    ---        4,127       ---        3,779
    special washington post 
       distribution ................    ---	    14,877       ---       13,851
    sales of securities ............  216,242    468,903     150,897    325,237
                                     --------   --------    --------   --------
    total earnings - all entities .. $412,099   $613,356    $282,361   $435,815
                                     ========   ========    ========   ========
    
         as you can see, operating earnings substantially improved 
    during 1986.  some of the improvement came from the insurance 
    operation, whose results i will discuss in a later section.  
    fechheimer also will be discussed separately.  our other major 
    businesses performed as follows:
    
       **o** operating results at the buffalo news continue to reflect a 
    truly superb managerial job by stan lipsey.  for the third year 
    in a row, man-hours worked fell significantly and other costs 
    were closely controlled.  consequently, our operating margins 
    improved materially in 1986, even though our advertising rate 
    increases were well below those of most major newspapers.
    
         our cost-control efforts have in no way reduced our 
    commitment to news.  we continue to deliver a 50% "news hole" 
    (the portion of the total space in the paper devoted to news), a 
    higher percentage, we believe, than exists at any dominant 
    newspaper in this country of our size or larger.
    
         the average news hole at papers comparable to the news is 
    about 40%.  the difference between 40% and 50% is more important 
    than it might first seem: a paper with 30 pages of ads and a 40% 
    news hole delivers 20 pages of news a day, whereas our paper 
    matches 30 pages of ads with 30 pages of news.  therefore, given 
    ad pages equal in number, we end up delivering our readers no 
    less than 50% more news.
    
         we believe this heavy commitment to news is one of the 
    reasons the buffalo news has the highest weekday penetration rate 
    (the percentage of households in the papers primary marketing 
    area purchasing it each day) among any of the top 50 papers in 
    the country.  our sunday penetration, where we are also number 
    one, is even more impressive.  ten years ago, the only sunday 
    paper serving buffalo (the courier-express) had circulation of 
    271,000 and a penetration ratio of about 63%.  the courier-
    express had served the area for many decades and its penetration 
    ratio - which was similar to those existing in many metropolitan 
    markets - was thought to be a "natural" one, accurately 
    reflecting the local citizenrys appetite for a sunday product.
    
         our sunday paper was started in late 1977.  it now has a 
    penetration ratio of 83% and sells about 100,000 copies more each 
    sunday than did the courier-express ten years ago - even though 
    population in our market area has declined during the decade.  in 
    recent history, no other city that has long had a local sunday 
    paper has experienced a penetration gain anywhere close to 
    buffalos.
    
         despite our exceptional market acceptance, our operating 
    margins almost certainly have peaked.  a major newsprint price 
    increase took effect at the end of 1986, and our advertising rate 
    increases in 1987 will again be moderate compared to those of the 
    industry.  however, even if margins should materially shrink, we 
    would not reduce our news-hole ratio.
    
         as i write this, it has been exactly ten years since we 
    purchased the news.  the financial rewards it has brought us have 
    far exceeded our expectations and so, too, have the non-financial 
    rewards.  our respect for the news - high when we bought it - has 
    grown consistently ever since the purchase, as has our respect 
    and admiration for murray light, the editor who turns out the 
    product that receives such extraordinary community acceptance.  
    the efforts of murray and stan, which were crucial to the news 
    during its dark days of financial reversals and litigation, have 
    not in the least been lessened by prosperity.  charlie and i are 
    grateful to them.
    
       **o** the amazing blumkins continue to perform business miracles 
    at nebraska furniture mart.  competitors come and go (mostly go), 
    but mrs. b. and her progeny roll on.  in 1986 net sales increased 
    10.2% to $132 million.  ten years ago sales were $44 million and, 
    even then, nfm appeared to be doing just about all of the 
    business available in the greater omaha area.  given nfms 
    remarkable dominance, omahas slow growth in population and the 
    modest inflation rates that have applied to the goods nfm sells, 
    how can this operation continue to rack up such large sales 
    gains?  the only logical explanation is that the marketing 
    territory of nfms one-and-only store continues to widen because 
    of its ever-growing reputation for rock-bottom everyday prices 
    and the broadest of selections.  in preparation for further 
    gains, nfm is expanding the capacity of its warehouse, located a 
    few hundred yards from the store, by about one-third.
    
         mrs. b, chairman of nebraska furniture mart, continues at 
    age 93 to outsell and out-hustle any manager ive ever seen.  
    shes at the store seven days a week, from opening to close.  
    competing with her represents a triumph of courage over judgment.
    
         its easy to overlook what i consider to be the critical 
    lesson of the mrs. b saga: at 93, omaha based board chairmen have 
    yet to reach their peak.  please file this fact away to consult 
    before you mark your ballot at the 2024 annual meeting of 
    berkshire.
    
       **o** at sees, sales trends improved somewhat from those of 
    recent years.  total pounds sold rose about 2%. (for you 
    chocaholics who like to fantasize, one statistic: we sell over 
    12,000 tons annually.) same-store sales, measured in pounds, were 
    virtually unchanged.  in the previous six years, same store 
    poundage fell, and we gained or maintained poundage volume only 
    by adding stores.  but a particularly strong christmas season in 
    1986 stemmed the decline.  by stabilizing same-store volume and 
    making a major effort to control costs, sees was able to 
    maintain its excellent profit margin in 1986 though it put 
    through only minimal price increases.  we have chuck huggins, our 
    long-time manager at sees, to thank for this significant 
    achievement.
    
         sees has a one-of-a-kind product "personality" produced by 
    a combination of its candys delicious taste and moderate price, 
    the companys total control of the distribution process, and the 
    exceptional service provided by store employees.  chuck 
    rightfully measures his success by the satisfaction of our 
    customers, and his attitude permeates the organization.  few 
    major retailing companies have been able to sustain such a 
    customer-oriented spirit, and we owe chuck a great deal for 
    keeping it alive and well at sees.
    
         sees profits should stay at about their present level.  we 
    will continue to increase prices very modestly, merely matching 
    prospective cost increases.
    
       **o** world book is the largest of 17 scott fetzer operations 
    that joined berkshire at the beginning of 1986.  last year i 
    reported to you enthusiastically about the businesses of scott 
    fetzer and about ralph schey, its manager.  a years experience 
    has added to my enthusiasm for both.  ralph is a superb 
    businessman and a straight shooter.  he also brings exceptional 
    versatility and energy to his job: despite the wide array of 
    businesses that he manages, he is on top of the operations, 
    opportunities and problems of each.  and, like our other 
    managers, ralph is a real pleasure to work with.  our good 
    fortune continues.
    
         world books unit volume increased for the fourth 
    consecutive year, with encyclopedia sales up 7% over 1985 and 45% 
    over 1982.  childcrafts unit sales also grew significantly.
    
         world book continues to dominate the u.s. direct-sales 
    encyclopedia market - and for good reasons.  extraordinarily 
    well-edited and priced at under 5 cents per page, these books are 
    a bargain for youngster and adult alike.  you may find one 
    editing technique interesting: world book ranks over 44,000 words 
    by difficulty.  longer entries in the encyclopedia include only 
    the most easily comprehended words in the opening sections, with 
    the difficulty of the material gradually escalating as the 
    exposition proceeds.  as a result, youngsters can easily and 
    profitably read to the point at which subject matter gets too 
    difficult, instead of immediately having to deal with a 
    discussion that mixes up words requiring college-level 
    comprehension with others of fourth-grade level.  
    
         selling world book is a calling.  over one-half of our 
    active salespeople are teachers or former teachers, and another 
    5% have had experience as librarians.  they correctly think of 
    themselves as educators, and they do a terrific job.  if you 
    dont have a world book set in your house, i recommend one.
    
       **o** kirby likewise recorded its fourth straight year of unit 
    volume gains.  worldwide, unit sales grew 4% from 1985 and 33% 
    from 1982.  while the kirby product is more expensive than most 
    cleaners, it performs in a manner that leaves cheaper units far 
    behind ("in the dust," so to speak).  many 30- and 40-year-old 
    kirby cleaners are still in active duty.  if you want the best, 
    you buy a kirby.
    
         some companies that historically have had great success in 
    direct sales have stumbled in recent years.  certainly the era of 
    the working woman has created new challenges for direct sales 
    organizations.  so far, the record shows that both kirby and 
    world book have responded most successfully.
    
         the businesses described above, along with the insurance 
    operation and fechheimer, constitute our major business units.  
    the brevity of our descriptions is in no way meant to diminish 
    the importance of these businesses to us.  all have been 
    discussed in past annual reports and, because of the tendency of 
    berkshire owners to stay in the fold (about 98% of the stock at 
    the end of each year is owned by people who were owners at the 
    start of the year), we want to avoid undue repetition of basic 
    facts.  you can be sure that we will immediately report to you in 
    detail if the underlying economics or competitive position of any 
    of these businesses should materially change.  in general, the 
    businesses described in this section can be characterized as 
    having very strong market positions, very high returns on capital 
    employed, and the best of operating managements.
    
    **the fechheimer bros. co.
    **
         every year in berkshires annual report i include a 
    description of the kind of business that we would like to buy.  
    this "ad" paid off in 1986.
    
         on january 15th of last year i received a letter from bob 
    heldman of cincinnati, a shareholder for many years and also 
    chairman of fechheimer bros.  until i read the letter, however, i 
    did not know of either bob or fechheimer.  bob wrote that he ran 
    a company that met our tests and suggested that we get together, 
    which we did in omaha after their results for 1985 were compiled.
    
         he filled me in on a little history: fechheimer, a uniform 
    manufacturing and distribution business, began operations in 
    1842.  warren heldman, bobs father, became involved in the 
    business in 1941 and his sons, bob and george (now president), 
    along with their sons, subsequently joined the company.  under 
    the heldmans management, the business was highly successful.
    
         in 1981 fechheimer was sold to a group of venture 
    capitalists in a leveraged buy out (an lbo), with management 
    retaining an equity interest.  the new company, as is the case 
    with all lbos, started with an exceptionally high debt/equity 
    ratio.  after the buy out, however, operations continued to be 
    very successful.  so by the start of last year debt had been paid 
    down substantially and the value of the equity had increased 
    dramatically.  for a variety of reasons, the venture capitalists 
    wished to sell and bob, having dutifully read berkshires annual 
    reports, thought of us.
    
         fechheimer is exactly the sort of business we like to buy.  
    its economic record is superb; its managers are talented, high-
    grade, and love what they do; and the heldman family wanted to 
    continue its financial interest in partnership with us.  
    therefore, we quickly purchased about 84% of the stock for a 
    price that was based upon a $55 million valuation for the entire 
    business.
    
         the circumstances of this acquisition were similar to those 
    prevailing in our purchase of nebraska furniture mart: most of 
    the shares were held by people who wished to employ funds 
    elsewhere; family members who enjoyed running their business 
    wanted to continue both as owners and managers; several 
    generations of the family were active in the business, providing 
    management for as far as the eye can see; and the managing family 
    wanted a purchaser who would not re-sell, regardless of price, 
    and who would let the business be run in the future as it had 
    been in the past.  both fechheimer and nfm were right for us, and 
    we were right for them.
    
         you may be amused to know that neither charlie nor i have 
    been to cincinnati, headquarters for fechheimer, to see their 
    operation. (and, incidentally, it works both ways: chuck huggins, 
    who has been running sees for 15 years, has never been to 
    omaha.) if our success were to depend upon insights we developed 
    through plant inspections, berkshire would be in big trouble.  
    rather, in considering an acquisition, we attempt to evaluate the 
    economic characteristics of the business - its competitive 
    strengths and weaknesses - and the quality of the people we will 
    be joining.  fechheimer was a standout in both respects.  in 
    addition to bob and george heldman, who are in their mid-60s - 
    spring chickens by our standards - there are three members of the 
    next generation, gary, roger and fred, to insure continuity.
    
         as a prototype for acquisitions, fechheimer has only one 
    drawback: size.  we hope our next acquisition is at least several 
    times as large but a carbon copy in all other respects.  our 
    threshold for minimum annual after-tax earnings of potential 
    acquisitions has been moved up to $10 million from the $5 million 
    level that prevailed when bob wrote to me.
    
         flushed with success, we repeat our ad.  if you have a 
    business that fits, call me or, preferably, write.
    
         heres what were looking for: 
         (1) large purchases (at least $10 million of after-tax 
             earnings), 
         (2) demonstrated consistent earning power (future 
             projections are of little interest to us, nor are 
             "turn-around" situations), 
         (3) businesses earning good returns on equity while 
             employing little or no debt.  
         (4) management in place (we cant supply it), 
         (5) simple businesses (if theres lots of technology, we 
             wont understand it), 
         (6) an offering price (we dont want to waste our time 
             or that of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, 
             about a transaction when price is unknown).
    
         we will not engage in unfriendly takeovers.  we can promise 
    complete confidentiality and a very fast answer - customarily 
    within five minutes - as to whether were interested.  we prefer 
    to buy for cash, but will consider issuing stock when we receive 
    as much in intrinsic business value as we give.  indeed, 
    following recent advances in the price of berkshire stock, 
    transactions involving stock issuance may be quite feasible.  we 
    invite potential sellers to check us out by contacting people 
    with whom we have done business in the past.  for the right 
    business - and the right people - we can provide a good home.  
    
         on the other hand, we frequently get approached about 
    acquisitions that dont come close to meeting our tests: new 
    ventures, turnarounds, auction-like sales, and the ever-popular 
    (among brokers) "im-sure-something-will-work-out-if-you-people-
    get-to-know-each-other." none of these attracts us in the least.
    
                             *  *  *
    
         besides being interested in the purchases of entire 
    businesses as described above, we are also interested in the 
    negotiated purchase of large, but not controlling, blocks of 
    stock, as in our cap cities purchase.  such purchases appeal to 
    us only when we are very comfortable with both the economics of 
    the business and the ability and integrity of the people running 
    the operation.  we prefer large transactions: in the unusual case 
    we might do something as small as $50 million (or even smaller), 
    but our preference is for commitments many times that size.
    
    **insurance operations
    **
         we present our usual table of industry figures, expanded 
    this year to include data about incurred losses and the gnp 
    inflation index.  the contrast in 1986 between the growth in 
    premiums and growth in incurred losses will show you why 
    underwriting results for the year improved materially:
    _
                                  statutory
              yearly change    combined ratio    yearly change   inflation rate 
               in premiums   after policyholder   in incurred     measured by 
               written (%)        dividends        losses (%)   gnp deflator (%)
    _          -------------  ------------------  -------------  ----------------
    1981 .....     3.8              106.0             6.5             9.7
    1982 .....     4.4              109.8             8.4             6.4
    1983 .....     4.6              112.0             6.8             3.9
    1984 .....     9.2              117.9            16.9             3.8
    1985 .....    22.1              116.5            16.1             3.3
    1986 (est.)   22.6              108.5            15.5             2.6
    
    source: bests insurance management reports
    
         the combined ratio represents total insurance costs (losses 
    incurred plus expenses) compared to revenue from premiums: a 
    ratio below 100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 
    100 indicates a loss.  when the investment income that an insurer 
    earns from holding on to policyholders funds ("the float") is 
    taken into account, a combined ratio in the 107-112 range 
    typically produces an overall break-even result, exclusive of 
    earnings on the funds provided by shareholders.
    
         the math of the insurance business, encapsulated by the 
    table, is not very complicated.  in years when the industrys 
    annual gain in revenues (premiums) pokes along at 4% or 5%, 
    underwriting losses are sure to mount.  this is not because auto 
    accidents, fires, windstorms and the like are occurring more 
    frequently, nor has it lately been the fault of general 
    inflation.  today, social and judicial inflation are the major 
    culprits; the cost of entering a courtroom has simply ballooned.  
    part of the jump in cost arises from skyrocketing verdicts, and 
    part from the tendency of judges and juries to expand the 
    coverage of insurance policies beyond that contemplated by the 
    insurer when the policies were written.  seeing no let-up in 
    either trend, we continue to believe that the industrys revenues 
    must grow at close to 10% annually for it to just hold its own 
    in terms of profitability, even though general inflation may be 
    running only 2% - 4%.
    
         in 1986, as noted, the industrys premium volume soared even 
    faster than loss costs.  consequently, the underwriting loss of 
    the industry fell dramatically.  in last years report we 
    predicted this sharp improvement but also predicted that 
    prosperity would be fleeting.  alas, this second prediction is 
    already proving accurate.  the rate of gain in the industrys 
    premium volume has slowed significantly (from an estimated 27.1% 
    in 1986s first quarter, to 23.5% in the second, to 21.8% in the 
    third, to 18.7% in the fourth), and we expect further slowing in 
    1987.  indeed, the rate of gain may well fall below my 10% 
    "equilibrium" figure by the third quarter.
    
         nevertheless, underwriting results in 1987, assuming they 
    are not dragged down by a major natural catastrophe, will again 
    improve materially because price increases are recognized in 
    revenues on a lagged basis.  in effect, the good news in earnings 
    follows the good news in prices by six to twelve months.  but the 
    improving trend in earnings will probably end by late 1988 or 
    early 1989.  thereafter the industry is likely to head south in a 
    hurry.
    
         pricing behavior in the insurance industry continues to be 
    exactly what can be expected in a commodity-type business.  only 
    under shortage conditions are high profits achieved, and such 
    conditions dont last long.  when the profit sun begins to shine, 
    long-established insurers shower investors with new shares in 
    order to build capital.  in addition, newly-formed insurers rush 
    to sell shares at the advantageous prices available in the new-
    issue market (prices advantageous, that is, to the insiders 
    promoting the company but rarely to the new shareholders).  these 
    moves guarantee future trouble: capacity soars, competitive 
    juices flow, and prices fade.
    
         its interesting to observe insurance leaders beseech their 
    colleagues to behave in a more "statesmanlike" manner when 
    pricing policies.  "why," they ask, "cant we learn from history, 
    even out the peaks and valleys, and consistently price to make 
    reasonable profits?" what they wish, of course, is pricing that 
    resembles, say, that of the wall street journal, whose prices are 
    ample to start with and rise consistently each year.
    
         such calls for improved behavior have all of the efficacy of 
    those made by a nebraska corn grower asking his fellow growers, 
    worldwide, to market their corn with more statesmanship.  whats 
    needed is not more statesmen, but less corn.  by raising large 
    amounts of capital in the last two years, the insurance industry 
    has, to continue our metaphor, vastly expanded its plantings of 
    corn.  the resulting increase in "crop" - i.e., the proliferation 
    of insurance capacity - will have the same effect on prices and 
    profits that surplus crops have had since time immemorial.
    
         our own insurance operation did well in 1986 and is also 
    likely to do well in 1987.  we have benefited significantly from 
    industry conditions.  but much of our prosperity arises from the 
    efforts and ability of mike goldberg, manager of all insurance 
    operations.
    
         our combined ratio (on a statutory basis and excluding 
    structured settlements and financial reinsurance) fell from 111 
    in 1985 to 103 in 1986.  in addition, our premium growth has been 
    exceptional: although final figures arent available, i believe 
    that over the past two years we were the fastest growing company 
    among the countrys top 100 insurers.  some of our growth, it is 
    true, came from our large quota-share contract with firemans 
    fund, described in last years report and updated in charlies 
    letter on page 54.  but even if the premiums from that contract 
    are excluded from the calculation, we probably still ranked first 
    in growth.
    
         interestingly, we were the slowest-growing large insurer in 
    the years immediately preceding 1985.  in fact, we shrank - and 
    we will do so again from time to time in the future.  our large 
    swings in volume do not mean that we come and go from the 
    insurance marketplace.  indeed, we are its most steadfast 
    participant, always standing ready, at prices we believe 
    adequate, to write a wide variety of high-limit coverages.  the 
    swings in our volume arise instead from the here-today, gone-
    tomorrow behavior of other insurers.  when most insurers are 
    "gone," because their capital is inadequate or they have been 
    frightened by losses, insureds rush to us and find us ready to 
    do business.  but when hordes of insurers are "here," and are 
    slashing prices far below expectable costs, many customers 
    naturally leave us in order to take advantage of the bargains 
    temporarily being offered by our competition.
    
         our firmness on prices works no hardship on the consumer: he 
    is being bombarded by attractively priced insurance offers at 
    those times when we are doing little business.  and it works no 
    hardship on our employees: we dont engage in layoffs when we 
    experience a cyclical slowdown at one of our generally-profitable 
    insurance operations.  this no-layoff practice is in our self-
    interest.  employees who fear that large layoffs will accompany 
    sizable reductions in premium volume will understandably produce 
    scads of business through thick and thin (mostly thin).
    
         the trends in national indemnitys traditional business - 
    the writing of commercial auto and general liability policies 
    through general agents - suggest how gun-shy other insurers 
    became for a while and how brave they are now getting.  in the 
    last quarter of 1984, nicos monthly volume averaged $5 million, 
    about what it had been running for several years.  by the first 
    quarter of 1986, monthly volume had climbed to about $35 million.  
    in recent months, a sharp decline has set in.  monthly volume is 
    currently about $20 million and will continue to fall as new 
    competitors surface and prices are cut.  ironically, the managers 
    of certain major new competitors are the very same managers that 
    just a few years ago bankrupted insurers that were our old 
    competitors.  through state-mandated guaranty funds, we must pay 
    some of the losses these managers left unpaid, and now we find 
    them writing the same sort of business under a new name.  cest 
    la guerre.
    
         the business we call "large risks" expanded significantly 
    during 1986, and will be important to us in the future.  in this 
    operation, we regularly write policies with annual premiums of $1 
    - $3 million, or even higher.  this business will necessarily be 
    highly volatile - both in volume and profitability - but our 
    premier capital position and willingness to write large net lines 
    make us a very strong force in the market when prices are right.  
    on the other hand, our structured settlement business has become 
    near-dormant because present prices make no sense to us.
    
         the 1986 loss reserve development of our insurance group is 
    chronicled on page 46.  the figures show the amount of error in 
    our yearend 1985 liabilities that a year of settlements and 
    further evaluation has revealed.  as you can see, what i told you 
    last year about our loss liabilities was far from true - and that 
    makes three years in a row of error.  if the physiological rules 
    that applied to pinocchio were to apply to me, my nose would now 
    draw crowds.
    
         when insurance executives belatedly establish proper 
    reserves, they often speak of "reserve strengthening," a term 
    that has a rather noble ring to it.  they almost make it sound as 
    if they are adding extra layers of strength to an already-solid 
    balance sheet.  thats not the case: instead the term is a 
    euphemism for what should more properly be called "correction of 
    previous untruths" (albeit non-intentional ones).
    
         we made a special effort at the end of 1986 to reserve 
    accurately.  however, we tried just as hard at the end of 1985.  
    only time will tell whether we have finally succeeded in 
    correctly estimating our insurance liabilities.
    
         despite the difficulties we have had in reserving and the 
    commodity economics of the industry, we expect our insurance 
    business to both grow and make significant amounts of money - but 
    progress will be distinctly irregular and there will be major 
    unpleasant surprises from time to time.  its a treacherous 
    business and a wary attitude is essential.  we must heed woody 
    allen: "while the lamb may lie down with the lion, the lamb 
    shouldnt count on getting a whole lot of sleep."
    
         in our insurance operations we have an advantage in 
    attitude, we have an advantage in capital, and we are developing 
    an advantage in personnel.  additionally, i like to think we have 
    some long-term edge in investing the float developed from 
    policyholder funds.  the nature of the business suggests that we 
    will need all of these advantages in order to prosper.
    
                              *  *  *
    
         geico corporation, 41% owned by berkshire, had an 
    outstanding year in 1986.  industrywide, underwriting experience 
    in personal lines did not improve nearly as much as it did in 
    commercial lines.  but geico, writing personal lines almost 
    exclusively, improved its combined ratio to 96.9 and recorded a 
    16% gain in premium volume.  geico also continued to repurchase 
    its own shares and ended the year with 5.5% fewer shares 
    outstanding than it had at the start of the year.  our share of 
    geicos premium volume is over $500 million, close to double that 
    of only three years ago.  geicos book of business is one of the 
    best in the world of insurance, far better indeed than 
    berkshires own book.
    
         the most important ingredient in geicos success is rock-
    bottom operating costs, which set the company apart from 
    literally hundreds of competitors that offer auto insurance.  the 
    total of geicos underwriting expense and loss adjustment expense 
    in 1986 was only 23.5% of premiums.  many major companies show 
    percentages 15 points higher than that.  even such huge direct 
    writers as allstate and state farm incur appreciably higher costs 
    than does geico.
    
         the difference between geicos costs and those of its 
    competitors is a kind of moat that protects a valuable and much-
    sought-after business castle.  no one understands this moat-
    around-the-castle concept better than bill snyder, chairman of 
    geico.  he continually widens the moat by driving down costs 
    still more, thereby defending and strengthening the economic 
    franchise.  between 1985 and 1986, geicos total expense ratio 
    dropped from 24.1% to the 23.5% mentioned earlier and, under 
    bills leadership, the ratio is almost certain to drop further.  
    if it does - and if geico maintains its service and underwriting 
    standards - the companys future will be brilliant indeed.
    
         the second stage of the geico rocket is fueled by lou 
    simpson, vice chairman, who has run the companys investments 
    since late 1979.  indeed, its a little embarrassing for me, the 
    fellow responsible for investments at berkshire, to chronicle 
    lous performance at geico.  only my ownership of a controlling 
    block of berkshire stock makes me secure enough to give you the 
    following figures, comparing the overall return of the equity 
    portfolio at geico to that of the standard & poors 500:
    _
         year                   geicos equities      s&p 500
         ----                   ----------------      -------
    _     1980 ..................       23.7%           32.3%
         1981 ..................        5.4            (5.0)
         1982 ..................       45.8            21.4
         1983 ..................       36.0            22.4
         1984 ..................       21.8             6.2
         1985 ..................       45.8            31.6
         1986 ..................       38.7            18.6
    
         these are not only terrific figures but, fully as important, 
    they have been achieved in the right way.  lou has consistently 
    invested in undervalued common stocks that, individually, were 
    unlikely to present him with a permanent loss and that, 
    collectively, were close to risk-free.
    
         in sum, geico is an exceptional business run by exceptional 
    managers.  we are fortunate to be associated with them.
    
    **marketable securities
    **
         during 1986, our insurance companies purchased about $700 
    million of tax-exempt bonds, most having a maturity of 8 to 12 
    years.  you might think that this commitment indicates a 
    considerable enthusiasm for such bonds.  unfortunately, thats 
    not so: at best, the bonds are mediocre investments.  they simply 
    seemed the least objectionable alternative at the time we bought 
    them, and still seem so. (currently liking neither stocks nor 
    bonds, i find myself the polar opposite of mae west as she 
    declared: "i like only two kinds of men - foreign and domestic.")
    
         we must, of necessity, hold marketable securities in our 
    insurance companies and, as money comes in, we have only five 
    directions to go: (1) long-term common stock investments; (2) 
    long-term fixed-income securities; (3) medium-term fixed-income 
    securities; (4) short-term cash equivalents; and (5) short-term 
    arbitrage commitments.
    
         common stocks, of course, are the most fun.  when conditions 
    are right that is, when companies with good economics and good 
    management sell well below intrinsic business value - stocks 
    sometimes provide grand-slam home runs.  but we currently find no 
    equities that come close to meeting our tests.  this statement in 
    no way translates into a stock market prediction: we have no idea 
    - and never have had - whether the market is going to go up, 
    down, or sideways in the near- or intermediate term future.
    
         what we do know, however, is that occasional outbreaks of 
    those two super-contagious diseases, fear and greed, will forever 
    occur in the investment community.  the timing of these epidemics 
    will be unpredictable.  and the market aberrations produced by 
    them will be equally unpredictable, both as to duration and 
    degree.  therefore, we never try to anticipate the arrival or 
    departure of either disease.  our goal is more modest: we simply 
    attempt to be fearful when others are greedy and to be greedy 
    only when others are fearful.
    
         as this is written, little fear is visible in wall street.  
    instead, euphoria prevails - and why not?  what could be more 
    exhilarating than to participate in a bull market in which the 
    rewards to owners of businesses become gloriously uncoupled from 
    the plodding performances of the businesses themselves.  
    unfortunately, however, stocks cant outperform businesses 
    indefinitely.
    
         indeed, because of the heavy transaction and investment 
    management costs they bear, stockholders as a whole and over the 
    long term must inevitably underperform the companies they own.  
    if american business, in aggregate, earns about 12% on equity 
    annually, investors must end up earning significantly less.  bull 
    markets can obscure mathematical laws, but they cannot repeal 
    them.
    
         the second category of investments open to our insurance 
    companies is long-term bonds.  these are unlikely to be of 
    interest to us except in very special situations, such as the 
    washington public power supply system #1, #2 and #3 issues, 
    discussed in our 1984 report. (at yearend, we owned wppss issues 
    having an amortized cost of $218 million and a market value of 
    $310 million, paying us $31.7 million in annual tax-exempt 
    income.) our aversion to long-term bonds relates to our fear that 
    we will see much higher rates of inflation within the next 
    decade.  over time, the behavior of our currency will be 
    determined by the behavior of our legislators.  this relationship 
    poses a continuing threat to currency stability - and a 
    corresponding threat to the owners of long-term bonds.
    
         we continue to periodically employ money in the arbitrage 
    field.  however, unlike most arbitrageurs, who purchase dozens of 
    securities each year, we purchase only a few.  we restrict 
    ourselves to large deals that have been announced publicly and do 
    not bet on the come.  therefore, our potential profits are apt to 
    be small; but, with luck, our disappointments will also be few.
    
         our yearend portfolio shown below includes one arbitrage 
    commitment, lear-siegler.  our balance sheet also includes a 
    receivable for $145 million, representing the money owed us (and 
    paid a few days later) by unilever, then in the process of 
    purchasing chesebrough-ponds, another of our arbitrage holdings.  
    arbitrage is an alternative to treasury bills as a short-term 
    parking place for money - a choice that combines potentially 
    higher returns with higher risks.  to date, our returns from the 
    funds committed to arbitrage have been many times higher than 
    they would have been had we left those funds in treasury bills.  
    nonetheless, one bad experience could change the scorecard 
    markedly.
    
         we also, though it takes some straining, currently view 
    medium-term tax-exempt bonds as an alternative to short-term 
    treasury holdings.  buying these bonds, we run a risk of 
    significant loss if, as seems probable, we sell many of them well 
    before maturity.  however, we believe this risk is more than 
    counter-balanced first, by the much higher after-tax returns 
    currently realizable from these securities as compared to 
    treasury bills and second, by the possibility that sales will 
    produce an overall profit rather than a loss.  our expectation of 
    a higher total return, after allowing for the possibility of loss 
    and after taking into account all tax effects, is a relatively 
    close call and could well be wrong.  even if we sell our bonds at 
    a fairly large loss, however, we may end up reaping a higher 
    after-tax return than we would have realized by repeatedly 
    rolling over treasury bills.
    
         in any event, you should know that our expectations for both 
    the stocks and bonds we now hold are exceptionally modest, given 
    current market levels.  probably the best thing that could happen 
    to us is a market in which we would choose to sell many of our 
    bond holdings at a significant loss in order to re-allocate funds 
    to the far-better equity values then very likely to exist.  the 
    bond losses i am talking about would occur if high interest rates 
    came along; the same rates would probably depress common stocks 
    considerably more than medium-term bonds.
    
         we show below our 1986 yearend net holdings in marketable 
    equities. all positions with a market value of over $25 million 
    are listed, and the interests attributable to minority 
    shareholdings of wesco financial corp. and nebraska furniture 
    mart are excluded.
    _
    no. of shares                                      cost       market
    -------------                                   ----------  ----------
                                                        (000s omitted)
    _  2,990,000    capital cities/abc, inc. .......  $515,775   $  801,694
      6,850,000    geico corporation ..............    45,713      674,725
      2,379,200    handy & harman .................    27,318       46,989
        489,300    lear siegler, inc. .............    44,064       44,587
      1,727,765    the washington post company ....     9,731      269,531
                                                    ----------  ----------
                                                      642,601    1,837,526
                   all other common stockholdings      12,763       36,507
                                                    ----------  ----------
                   total common stocks ............  $655,364   $1,874,033
    
         we should note that we expect to keep permanently our three 
    primary holdings, capital cities/abc, inc., geico corporation, 
    and the washington post.  even if these securities were to appear 
    significantly overpriced, we would not anticipate selling them, 
    just as we would not sell sees or buffalo evening news if 
    someone were to offer us a price far above what we believe those 
    businesses are worth.
    
         this attitude may seem old-fashioned in a corporate world in 
    which activity has become the order of the day.  the modern 
    manager refers to his "portfolio" of businesses - meaning that 
    all of them are candidates for "restructuring" whenever such a 
    move is dictated by wall street preferences, operating conditions 
    or a new corporate "concept." (restructuring is defined narrowly, 
    however: it extends only to dumping offending businesses, not to 
    dumping the officers and directors who bought the businesses in 
    the first place.  "hate the sin but love the sinner" is a 
    theology as popular with the fortune 500 as it is with the 
    salvation army.)
    
         investment managers are even more hyperkinetic: their 
    behavior during trading hours makes whirling dervishes appear 
    sedated by comparison.  indeed, the term "institutional investor" 
    is becoming one of those self-contradictions called an oxymoron, 
    comparable to "jumbo shrimp," "lady mudwrestler" and "inexpensive 
    lawyer."
    
         despite the enthusiasm for activity that has swept business 
    and financial america, we will stick with our til-death-do-us-
    part policy. its the only one with which charlie and i are 
    comfortable, it produces decent results, and it lets our managers 
    and those of our investees run their businesses free of 
    distractions.
    
    **nhp, inc.
    **
         last year we paid $23.7 million for about 50% of nhp, inc., 
    a developer, syndicator, owner and manager of multi-family rental 
    housing.  should all executive stock options that have been 
    authorized be granted and exercised, our equity interest will 
    decline to slightly over 45%.
    
         nhp, inc. has a most unusual genealogy.  in 1967, president 
    johnson appointed a commission of business and civic leaders, led 
    by edgar kaiser, to study ways to increase the supply of 
    multifamily housing for low- and moderate-income tenants.  
    certain members of the commission subsequently formed and 
    promoted two business entities to foster this goal.  both are now 
    owned by nhp, inc. and one operates under unusual ground rules: 
    three of its directors must be appointed by the president, with 
    the advice and consent of the senate, and it is also required by 
    law to submit an annual report to the president.
    
         over 260 major corporations, motivated more by the idea of 
    public service than profit, invested $42 million in the two 
    original entities, which promptly began, through partnerships, to 
    develop government-subsidized rental property.  the typical 
    partnership owned a single property and was largely financed by a 
    non-recourse mortgage.  most of the equity money for each 
    partnership was supplied by a group of limited partners who were 
    primarily attracted by the large tax deductions that went with 
    the investment.  nhp acted as general partner and also purchased 
    a small portion of each partnerships equity.
    
         the governments housing policy has, of course, shifted and 
    nhp has necessarily broadened its activities to include non-
    subsidized apartments commanding market-rate rents.  in addition, 
    a subsidiary of nhp builds single-family homes in the washington, 
    d.c. area, realizing revenues of about $50 million annually.
    
         nhp now oversees about 500 partnership properties that are 
    located in 40 states, the district of columbia and puerto rico, 
    and that include about 80,000 housing units.  the cost of these 
    properties was more than $2.5 billion and they have been well 
    maintained.  nhp directly manages about 55,000 of the housing 
    units and supervises the management of the rest.  the companys 
    revenues from management are about $16 million annually, and 
    growing.
    
         in addition to the equity interests it purchased upon the 
    formation of each partnership, nhp owns varying residual 
    interests that come into play when properties are disposed of and 
    distributions are made to the limited partners.  the residuals on 
    many of nhps "deep subsidy" properties are unlikely to be of 
    much value.  but residuals on certain other properties could 
    prove quite valuable, particularly if inflation should heat up.
    
         the tax-oriented syndication of properties to individuals 
    has been halted by the tax reform act of 1986.  in the main, nhp 
    is currently trying to develop equity positions or significant 
    residual interests in non-subsidized rental properties of quality 
    and size (typically 200 to 500 units).  in projects of this kind, 
    nhp usually works with one or more large institutional investors 
    or lenders.  nhp will continue to seek ways to develop low- and 
    moderate-income apartment housing, but will not likely meet 
    success unless government policy changes.
    
         besides ourselves, the large shareholders in nhp are 
    weyerhauser (whose interest is about 25%) and a management group 
    led by rod heller, chief executive of nhp.  about 60 major 
    corporations also continue to hold small interests, none larger 
    than 2%.
    
    **taxation
    **
         the tax reform act of 1986 affects our various businesses in 
    important and divergent ways.  although we find much to praise in 
    the act, the net financial effect for berkshire is negative: our 
    rate of increase in business value is likely to be at least 
    moderately slower under the new law than under the old.  the net 
    effect for our shareholders is even more negative: every dollar 
    of increase in per-share business value, assuming the increase is 
    accompanied by an equivalent dollar gain in the market value of 
    berkshire stock, will produce 72 cents of after-tax gain for our 
    shareholders rather than the 80 cents produced under the old law.  
    this result, of course, reflects the rise in the maximum tax rate 
    on personal capital gains from 20% to 28%.
    
         here are the main tax changes that affect berkshire:
    
       **o** the tax rate on corporate ordinary income is scheduled to 
    decrease from 46% in 1986 to 34% in 1988.  this change obviously 
    affects us positively - and it also has a significant positive 
    effect on two of our three major investees, capital cities/abc 
    and the washington post company.
    
         i say this knowing that over the years there has been a lot 
    of fuzzy and often partisan commentary about who really pays 
    corporate taxes - businesses or their customers.  the argument, 
    of course, has usually turned around tax increases, not 
    decreases.  those people resisting increases in corporate rates 
    frequently argue that corporations in reality pay none of the 
    taxes levied on them but, instead, act as a sort of economic 
    pipeline, passing all taxes through to consumers.  according to 
    these advocates, any corporate-tax increase will simply lead to 
    higher prices that, for the corporation, offset the increase.  
    having taken this position, proponents of the "pipeline" theory 
    must also conclude that a tax decrease for corporations will not 
    help profits but will instead flow through, leading to 
    correspondingly lower prices for consumers.
    
         conversely, others argue that corporations not only pay the 
    taxes levied upon them, but absorb them also.  consumers, this 
    school says, will be unaffected by changes in corporate rates.
    
         what really happens?  when the corporate rate is cut, do 
    berkshire, the washington post, cap cities, etc., themselves soak 
    up the benefits, or do these companies pass the benefits along to 
    their customers in the form of lower prices?  this is an 
    important question for investors and managers, as well as for 
    policymakers.
    
         our conclusion is that in some cases the benefits of lower 
    corporate taxes fall exclusively, or almost exclusively, upon the 
    corporation and its shareholders, and that in other cases the 
    benefits are entirely, or almost entirely, passed through to the 
    customer.  what determines the outcome is the strength of the 
    corporations business franchise and whether the profitability of 
    that franchise is regulated.
    
         for example, when the franchise is strong and after-tax 
    profits are regulated in a relatively precise manner, as is the 
    case with electric utilities, changes in corporate tax rates are 
    largely reflected in prices, not in profits.  when taxes are cut, 
    prices will usually be reduced in short order.  when taxes are 
    increased, prices will rise, though often not as promptly.
    
         a similar result occurs in a second arena - in the price-
    competitive industry, whose companies typically operate with very 
    weak business franchises.  in such industries, the free market 
    "regulates" after-tax profits in a delayed and irregular, but 
    generally effective, manner.  the marketplace, in effect, 
    performs much the same function in dealing with the price-
    competitive industry as the public utilities commission does in 
    dealing with electric utilities.  in these industries, therefore, 
    tax changes eventually affect prices more than profits.
    
         in the case of unregulated businesses blessed with strong 
    franchises, however, its a different story:  the corporation 
    and its shareholders are then the major beneficiaries of tax 
    cuts.  these companies benefit from a tax cut much as the 
    electric company would if it lacked a regulator to force down 
    prices.
    
         many of our businesses, both those we own in whole and in 
    part, possess such franchises.  consequently, reductions in their 
    taxes largely end up in our pockets rather than the pockets of 
    our customers.  while this may be impolitic to state, it is 
    impossible to deny.  if you are tempted to believe otherwise, 
    think for a moment of the most able brain surgeon or lawyer in 
    your area.  do you really expect the fees of this expert (the 
    local "franchise-holder" in his or her specialty) to be reduced 
    now that the top personal tax rate is being cut from 50% to 28%?
    
         your joy at our conclusion that lower rates benefit a number 
    of our operating businesses and investees should be severely 
    tempered, however, by another of our convictions: scheduled 1988 
    tax rates, both individual and corporate, seem totally 
    unrealistic to us.  these rates will very likely bestow a fiscal 
    problem on washington that will prove incompatible with price 
    stability.  we believe, therefore, that ultimately - within, say, 
    five years - either higher tax rates or higher inflation rates 
    are almost certain to materialize.  and it would not surprise us 
    to see both.
    
       **o** corporate capital gains tax rates have been increased from 
    28% to 34%, effective in 1987.  this change will have an 
    important adverse effect on berkshire because we expect much of 
    our gain in business value in the future, as in the past, to 
    arise from capital gains.  for example, our three major 
    investment holdings - cap cities, geico, and washington post - at 
    yearend had a market value of over $1.7 billion, close to 75% of 
    the total net worth of berkshire, and yet they deliver us only 
    about $9 million in annual income.  instead, all three retain a 
    very high percentage of their earnings, which we expect to 
    eventually deliver us capital gains.
    
         the new law increases the rate for all gains realized in the 
    future, including the unrealized gains that existed before the 
    law was enacted.  at yearend, we had $1.2 billion of such 
    unrealized gains in our equity investments.  the effect of the new 
    law on our balance sheet will be delayed because a gaap rule 
    stipulates that the deferred tax liability applicable to 
    unrealized gains should be stated at last years 28% tax rate 
    rather than the current 34% rate.  this rule is expected to change 
    soon.  the moment it does, about $73 million will disappear from 
    our gaap net worth and be added to the deferred tax account.
    
       **o** dividend and interest income received by our insurance 
    companies will be taxed far more heavily under the new law.  
    first, all corporations will be taxed on 20% of the dividends 
    they receive from other domestic corporations, up from 15% under 
    the old law.  second, there is a change concerning the residual 
    80% that applies only to property/casualty companies: 15% of that 
    residual will be taxed if the stocks paying the dividends were 
    purchased after august 7, 1986.  a third change, again applying 
    only to property/casualty companies, concerns tax-exempt bonds: 
    interest on bonds purchased by insurers after august 7, 1986 will 
    only be 85% tax-exempt.
    
         the last two changes are very important.  they mean that our 
    income from the investments we make in future years will be 
    significantly lower than would have been the case under the old 
    law.  my best guess is that these changes alone will eventually 
    reduce the earning power of our insurance operation by at least 
    10% from what we could previously have expected.
    
       **o** the new tax law also materially changes the timing of tax 
    payments by property/casualty insurance companies.  one new rule 
    requires us to discount our loss reserves in our tax returns, a 
    change that will decrease deductions and increase taxable income.  
    another rule, to be phased in over six years, requires us to 
    include 20% of our unearned premium reserve in taxable income.
    
         neither rule changes the amount of the annual tax accrual in 
    our reports to you, but each materially accelerates the schedule 
    of payments.  that is, taxes formerly deferred will now be front-
    ended, a change that will significantly cut the profitability of 
    our business.  an analogy will suggest the toll: if, upon turning 
    21, you were required to immediately pay tax on all income you 
    were due to receive throughout your life, both your lifetime 
    wealth and your estate would be a small fraction of what they 
    would be if all taxes on your income were payable only when you 
    died.
    
         attentive readers may spot an inconsistency in what we say.  
    earlier, discussing companies in price-competitive industries, we 
    suggested that tax increases or reductions affect these companies 
    relatively little, but instead are largely passed along to their 
    customers.  but now we are saying that tax increases will affect 
    profits of berkshires property/casualty companies even though 
    they operate in an intensely price-competitive industry.
    
         the reason this industry is likely to be an exception to our 
    general rule is that not all major insurers will be working with 
    identical tax equations.  important differences will exist for 
    several reasons: a new alternative minimum tax will materially 
    affect some companies but not others; certain major insurers have 
    huge loss carry-forwards that will largely shield their income 
    from significant taxes for at least a few years; and the results 
    of some large insurers will be folded into the consolidated 
    returns of companies with non-insurance businesses.  these 
    disparate conditions will produce widely varying marginal tax 
    rates in the property/casualty industry.  that will not be the 
    case, however, in most other price-competitive industries, such 
    as aluminum, autos and department stores, in which the major 
    players will generally contend with similar tax equations.
    
         the absence of a common tax calculus for property/casualty 
    companies means that the increased taxes falling on the industry 
    will probably not be passed along to customers to the degree that 
    they would in a typical price-competitive industry.  insurers, in 
    other words, will themselves bear much of the new tax burdens.
    
       **o** a partial offset to these burdens is a "fresh start" 
    adjustment that occurred on january 1, 1987 when our december 31, 
    1986 loss reserve figures were converted for tax purposes to the 
    newly-required discounted basis. (in our reports to you, however, 
    reserves will remain on exactly the same basis as in the past - 
    undiscounted except in special cases such as structured 
    settlements.) the net effect of the "fresh start" is to give us a 
    double deduction: we will get a tax deduction in 1987 and future 
    years for a portion of our-incurred-but-unpaid insurance losses 
    that have already been fully deducted as costs in 1986 and 
    earlier years.
    
         the increase in net worth that is produced by this change is 
    not yet reflected in our financial statements.  rather, under 
    present gaap rules (which may be changed), the benefit will flow 
    into the earnings statement and, consequently, into net worth 
    over the next few years by way of reduced tax charges.  we expect 
    the total benefit from the fresh-start adjustment to be in the 
    $30 - $40 million range.  it should be noted, however, that this 
    is a one-time benefit, whereas the negative impact of the other 
    insurance-related tax changes is not only ongoing but, in 
    important respects, will become more severe as time passes.
    
       **o** the general utilities doctrine was repealed by the new tax 
    law. this means that in 1987 and thereafter there will be a 
    double tax on corporate liquidations, one at the corporate level 
    and another at the shareholder level.  in the past, the tax at 
    the corporate level could be avoided, if berkshire, for example, 
    were to be liquidated - which it most certainly wont be - 
    shareholders would, under the new law, receive far less from the 
    sales of our properties than they would have if the properties 
    had been sold in the past, assuming identical prices in each 
    sale.  though this outcome is theoretical in our case, the change 
    in the law will very materially affect many companies.  
    therefore, it also affects our evaluations of prospective 
    investments.  take, for example, producing oil and gas 
    businesses, selected media companies, real estate companies, etc. 
    that might wish to sell out.  the values that their shareholders 
    can realize are likely to be significantly reduced simply because 
    the general utilities doctrine has been repealed - though the 
    companies operating economics will not have changed adversely at 
    all.  my impression is that this important change in the law has 
    not yet been fully comprehended by either investors or managers.
    
         this section of our report has been longer and more 
    complicated than i would have liked.  but the changes in the law 
    are many and important, particularly for property/casualty 
    insurers.  as i have noted, the new law will hurt berkshires 
    results, but the negative impact is impossible to quantify with 
    any precision.
    
    **miscellaneous
    **
         we bought a corporate jet last year.  what you have heard about such 
    planes is true: they are very expensive and a luxury in 
    situations like ours where little travel to out-of-the-way places 
    is required.  and planes not only cost a lot to operate, they cost 
    a lot just to look at.  pre-tax, cost of capital plus depreciation 
    on a new $15 million plane probably runs $3 million annually.  on 
    our own plane, bought for $850,000 used, such costs run close to 
    $200,000 annually.
    
         cognizant of such figures, your chairman, unfortunately, has 
    in the past made a number of rather intemperate remarks about 
    corporate jets.  accordingly, prior to our purchase, i was forced 
    into my galileo mode.  i promptly experienced the necessary 
    "counter-revelation" and travel is now considerably easier - and 
    considerably costlier - than in the past.  whether berkshire will 
    get its moneys worth from the plane is an open question, but i 
    will work at achieving some business triumph that i can (no 
    matter how dubiously) attribute to it.  im afraid ben franklin 
    had my number.  said he: "so convenient a thing it is to be a 
    reasonable creature, since it enables one to find or make a 
    reason for everything one has a mind to do."
    
         about 97% of all eligible shares participated in berkshires 
    1986 shareholder-designated contributions program.  contributions 
    made through the program were $4 million, and 1,934 charities 
    were recipients.
    
         we urge new shareholders to read the description of our 
    shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on 
    pages 58 and 59.  if you wish to participate in future programs, 
    we strongly urge that you immediately make sure your shares are 
    registered in the name of the actual owner, not in "street" name 
    or nominee name.  shares not so registered on september 30, 1987 
    will be ineligible for the 1987 program.
    
                               *  *  *
    
         last year almost 450 people attended our shareholders 
    meeting, up from about 250 the year before (and from about a 
    dozen ten years ago).  i hope you can join us on may 19th in 
    omaha.  charlie and i like to answer owner-related questions 
    and i can promise you that our shareholders will pose many good 
    ones.  finishing up the questions may take quite a while - we 
    had about 65 last year so you should feel free to leave once 
    your own have been answered.
    
         last year, after the meeting, one shareholder from new 
    jersey and another from new york went to the furniture mart, 
    where each purchased a $5,000 oriental rug from mrs. b. (to be 
    precise, they purchased rugs that might cost $10,000 elsewhere 
    for which they were charged about $5,000.) mrs. b was pleased - 
    but not satisfied - and she will be looking for you at the store 
    after this years meeting.  unless our shareholders top last 
    years record, ill be in trouble.  so do me (and yourself) a 
    favor, and go see her.
    
    
    
                                             warren e. buffett
    february 27, 1987                        chairman of the board

**_

appendix

_

purchase-price accounting adjustments and the "cash flow" fallacy

**



first a short quiz: below are abbreviated 1986 statements of earnings for two
companies. which business is the more valuable?

|

|  _

company o_ |

|  _

company n_ |  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
|

(000s omitted) |  
  
revenues. |

|

|

|

$677,240 |

|

|

|

$677,240 |  
  
|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
costs of goods sold: |

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
historical costs, excluding depreciation. |

|

$341,170 |

|

|

|

$341,170 |

|

|  
  
special non-cash inventory costs. |

|

|

|

|

|

4,979 |

(1) |

|  
  
depreciation of plant and equipment ... |

|

8,301 |

|

|

|

13,355 |

(2) |

|  
  
|

|

|

|  _

349,471_ |

|

|

|  _

359,504_ |  
  
|

|

|

|

$327,769 |

|

|

|

$317,736 |  
  
gross profit . |

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
selling &amp; admin. expense........ |

|

$260,286 |

|

|

|

$260,286 |

|

|  
  
amortization of goodwill ......... |

|

______ |

|

|

|

_____595_ |

(3) |

|  
  
|

|

|

|  _

260,286_ |

|

|

|  _

260,881_ |  
  
operating profit ..................... |

|

|

|

$ 67,483 |

|

|

|

$ 56,855 |  
  
other income, net ................. |

|

|

|  _

4,135_ |

|

|

|  _

4,135_ |  
  
pre-tax income ...................... |

|

|

|

$ 71,618 |

|

|

|

$ 60,990 |  
  
applicable income tax: |

|

|

|

|

|

|

|

|  
  
historical deferred and current tax . |

|

$ 31,387 |

|

|

|

$ 31,387 |

|

|  
  
non-cash inter-period allocation adjustment ............. |

|

______ |

|

|

|

______998_ |

(4) |

|  
  
|

|

|

|  _

31,387_ |

|

|

|  _

32,385_ |  
      
    
    net income ............                          $40,231              $28,605
                                                  =======              =======

_

(numbers (1) through (4) designate items discussed later in this section.)

_

as you've probably guessed, companies o and n are the same business - scott
fetzer. in the "o" (for "old") column we have shown what the company's 1986
gaap earnings would have been if we had not purchased it; in the "n" (for
"new") column we have shown scott fetzer's gaap earnings as actually reported
by berkshire.

it should be emphasized that the two columns depict identical economics -
i.e., the same sales, wages, taxes, etc. and both "companies" generate the
same amount of cash for owners. only the accounting is different.

so, fellow philosophers, which column presents truth? upon which set of
numbers should managers and investors focus?

before we tackle those questions, let's look at what produces the disparity
between o and n. we will simplify our discussion in some respects, but the
simplification should not produce any inaccuracies in analysis or conclusions.

the contrast between o and n comes about because we paid an amount for scott
fetzer that was different from its stated net worth. under gaap, such
differences - such premiums or discounts - must be accounted for by "purchase-
price adjustments." in scott fetzer's case, we paid $315 million for net
assets that were carried on its books at $172.4 million. so we paid a premium
of $142.6 million.

the first step in accounting for any premium paid is to adjust the carrying
value of current assets to current values. in practice, this requirement
usually does not affect receivables, which are routinely carried at current
value, but often affects inventories. because of a $22.9 million lifo reserve
and other accounting intricacies, scott fetzer's inventory account was carried
at a $37.3 million discount from current value. so, making our first
accounting move, we used $37.3 million of our $142.6 million premium to
increase the carrying value of the inventory.

assuming any premium is left after current assets are adjusted, the next step
is to adjust fixed assets to current value. in our case, this adjustment also
required a few accounting acrobatics relating to deferred taxes. since this
has been billed as a simplified discussion, i will skip the details and give
you the bottom line: $68.0 million was added to fixed assets and $13.0 million
was eliminated from deferred tax liabilities. after making this $81.0 million
adjustment, we were left with $24.3 million of premium to allocate.

had our situation called for them two steps would next have been required: the
adjustment of intangible assets other than goodwill to current fair values,
and the restatement of liabilities to current fair values, a requirement that
typically affects only long-term debt and unfunded pension liabilities. in
scott fetzer's case, however, neither of these steps was necessary.

the final accounting adjustment we needed to make, after recording fair market
values for all assets and liabilities, was the assignment of the residual
premium to goodwill (technically known as "excess of cost over the fair value
of net assets acquired"). this residual amounted to $24.3 million. thus, the
balance sheet of scott fetzer immediately before the acquisition, which is
summarized below in column o, was transformed by the purchase into the balance
sheet shown in column n. in real terms, both balance sheets depict the same
assets and liabilities - but, as you can see, certain figures differ
significantly.

|  _

company o_ |  _

company n_  
---|---|---  
  
|

(000s omitted)  
**

assets** |

|  
  
cash and cash equivalents ... |

$ 3,593 |

$ 3,593  
  
receivables, net .. |

90,919 |

90,919  
  
inventories  |

77,489 |

114,764  
  
other . |  _

5,954_ |  _

5,954_  
  
total current assets .. |

177,955 |

215,230  
  
property, plant, and equipment, net . |

80,967 |

148,960  
  
investments in and advances to unconsolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures
|

93,589 |

93,589  
  
other assets, including goodwill . |  _

9,836_ |  _

34,210_  
  
|  _

$362,347_ |  _

$491,989_  
**

liabilities** |

|  
  
notes payable and current portion of long-term debt  |

$ 4,650 |

$ 4,650  
  
accounts payable ... |

39,003 |

39,003  
  
accrued liabilities .. |  _

84,939_ |  _

84,939_  
  
total current liabilities .. |

128,592 |

128,592  
  
long-term debt and capitalized leases . |

34,669 |

34,669  
  
deferred income taxes .. |

17,052 |

4,075  
  
other deferred credits  |  _

9,657_ |  _

9,657_  
  
total liabilities  |

189,970 |

176,993  
  
shareholders' equity ... |  _

172,377_ |  _

314,996_  
      
    
                                                             $362,347       $491,989
                                                             ========       ========



the higher balance sheet figures shown in column n produce the lower income
figures shown in column n of the earnings statement presented earlier. this is
the result of the asset write-ups and of the fact that some of the written-up
assets must be depreciated or amortized. the higher the asset figure, the
higher the annual depreciation or amortization charge to earnings must be. the
charges that flowed to the earnings statement because of the balance sheet
write-ups were numbered in the statement of earnings shown earlier:

  1. $4,979,000 for non-cash inventory costs resulting, primarily, from reductions that scott fetzer made in its inventories during 1986; charges of this kind are apt to be small or non-existent in future years.

  2. $5,054,000 for extra depreciation attributable to the write-up of fixed assets; a charge approximating this amount will probably be made annually for 12 more years.

  3. $595,000 for amortization of goodwill; this charge will be made annually for 39 more years in a slightly larger amount because our purchase was made on january 6 and, therefore, the 1986 figure applies to only 98% of the year.

  4. $998,000 for deferred-tax acrobatics that are beyond my ability to explain briefly (or perhaps even non-briefly); a charge approximating this amount will probably be made annually for 12 more years.

it is important to understand that none of these newly-created accounting
costs, totaling $11.6 million, are deductible for income tax purposes. the
"new" scott fetzer pays exactly the same tax as the "old" scott fetzer would
have, even though the gaap earnings of the two entities differ greatly. and,
in respect to operating earnings, that would be true in the future also.
however, in the unlikely event that scott fetzer sells one of its businesses,
the tax consequences to the "old" and "new" company might differ widely.

by the end of 1986 the difference between the net worth of the "old" and "new"
scott fetzer had been reduced from $142.6 million to $131.0 million by means
of the extra $11.6 million that was charged to earnings of the new entity. as
the years go by, similar charges to earnings will cause most of the premium to
disappear, and the two balance sheets will converge. however, the higher land
values and most of the higher inventory values that were established on the
new balance sheet will remain unless land is disposed of or inventory levels
are further reduced.

* * *

what does all this mean for owners? did the shareholders of berkshire buy a
business that earned $40.2 million in 1986 or did they buy one earning $28.6
million? were those $11.6 million of new charges a real economic cost to us?
should investors pay more for the stock of company o than of company n? and,
if a business is worth some given multiple of earnings, was scott fetzer worth
considerably more the day before we bought it than it was worth the following
day?

if we think through these questions, we can gain some insights about what may
be called "owner earnings." these represent (a) reported earnings plus (b)
depreciation, depletion, amortization, and certain other non-cash charges such
as company n's items (1) and (4) less ( c) the average annual amount of
capitalized expenditures for plant and equipment, etc. that the business
requires to fully maintain its long-term competitive position and its unit
volume. (if the business requires additional working capital to maintain its
competitive position and unit volume, the increment also should be included in
( c) . however, businesses following the lifo inventory method usually do not
require additional working capital if unit volume does not change.)





our owner-earnings equation does not yield the deceptively precise figures
provided by gaap, since( c) must be a guess - and one sometimes very difficult
to make. despite this problem, we consider the owner earnings figure, not the
gaap figure, to be the relevant item for valuation purposes - both for
investors in buying stocks and for managers in buying entire businesses. we
agree with keynes's observation: "i would rather be vaguely right than
precisely wrong."

the approach we have outlined produces "owner earnings" for company o and
company n that are identical, which means valuations are also identical, just
as common sense would tell you should be the case. this result is reached
because the sum of (a) and (b) is the same in both columns o and n, and
because( c) is necessarily the same in both cases.

and what do charlie and i, as owners and managers, believe is the correct
figure for the owner earnings of scott fetzer? under current circumstances, we
believe ( c) is very close to the "old" company's (b) number of $8.3 million
and much below the "new" company's (b) number of $19.9 million. therefore, we
believe that owner earnings are far better depicted by the reported earnings
in the o column than by those in the n column. in other words, we feel owner
earnings of scott fetzer are considerably larger than the gaap figures that we
report.

that is obviously a happy state of affairs. but calculations of this sort
usually do not provide such pleasant news. most managers probably will
acknowledge that they need to spend something more than (b) on their
businesses over the longer term just to hold their ground in terms of both
unit volume and competitive position. when this imperative exists - that is,
when ( c) exceeds (b) - gaap earnings overstate owner earnings. frequently
this overstatement is substantial. the oil industry has in recent years
provided a conspicuous example of this phenomenon. had most major oil
companies spent only (b) each year, they would have guaranteed their shrinkage
in real terms.

all of this points up the absurdity of the "cash flow" numbers that are often
set forth in wall street reports. these numbers routinely include (a) plus (b)
- but do not subtract ( c) . most sales brochures of investment bankers also
feature deceptive presentations of this kind. these imply that the business
being offered is the commercial counterpart of the pyramids - forever state-
of-the-art, never needing to be replaced, improved or refurbished. indeed, if
all u.s. corporations were to be offered simultaneously for sale through our
leading investment bankers - and if the sales brochures describing them were
to be believed - governmental projections of national plant and equipment
spending would have to be slashed by 90%.

"cash flow", true, may serve as a shorthand of some utility in descriptions of
certain real estate businesses or other enterprises that make huge initial
outlays and only tiny outlays thereafter. a company whose only holding is a
bridge or an extremely long-lived gas field would be an example. but "cash
flow" is meaningless in such businesses as manufacturing, retailing,
extractive companies, and utilities because, for them, ( c) is always
significant. to be sure, businesses of this kind may in a given year be able
to defer capital spending. but over a five- or ten-year period, they must make
the investment - or the business decays.

why, then, are "cash flow" numbers so popular today? in answer, we confess our
cynicism: we believe these numbers are frequently used by marketers of
businesses and securities in attempts to justify the unjustifiable (and
thereby to sell what should be the unsalable). when (a) - that is, gaap
earnings - looks by itself inadequate to service debt of a junk bond or
justify a foolish stock price, how convenient it becomes for salesmen to focus
on (a) + (b). but you shouldn't add (b) without subtracting ( c) : though
dentists correctly claim that if you ignore your teeth they'll go away, the
same is not true for ( c) . the company or investor believing that the debt-
servicing ability or the equity valuation of an enterprise can be measured by
totaling (a) and (b) while ignoring ( c) is headed for certain trouble.

* * *

to sum up: in the case of both scott fetzer and our other businesses, we feel
that (b) on an historical-cost basis - i.e., with both amortization of
intangibles and other purchase-price adjustments excluded - is quite close in
amount to ( c) . (the two items are not identical, of course. for example, at
see's we annually make capitalized expenditures that exceed depreciation by
$500,000 to $1 million, simply to hold our ground competitively.) our
conviction about this point is the reason we show our amortization and other
purchase-price adjustment items separately in the table on page 8 and is also
our reason for viewing the earnings of the individual businesses as reported
there as much more closely approximating owner earnings than the gaap figures.

questioning gaap figures may seem impious to some. after all, what are we
paying the accountants for if it is not to deliver us the "truth" about our
business. but the accountants' job is to record, not to evaluate. the
evaluation job falls to investors and managers.

accounting numbers, of course, are the language of business and as such are of
enormous help to anyone evaluating the worth of a business and tracking its
progress. charlie and i would be lost without these numbers: they invariably
are the starting point for us in evaluating our own businesses and those of
others. managers and owners need to remember, however, that accounting is but
an aid to business thinking, never a substitute for it.



