**berkshire hathaway inc.**
    
    
    
    
    **to the shareholders of berkshire hathaway inc.:**
     
         our gain in net worth during 1987 was $464 million, or 
    19.5%.  over the last 23 years (that is, since present management 
    took over), our per-share book value has grown from $19.46 to 
    $2,477.47, or at a rate of 23.1% compounded annually. 
    
         what counts, of course, is the rate of gain in per-share 
    business value, not book value.  in many cases, a corporation's 
    book value and business value are almost totally unrelated.  for 
    example, just before they went bankrupt, ltv and baldwin-united 
    published yearend audits showing their book values to be $652 
    million and $397 million, respectively.  conversely, belridge oil 
    was sold to shell in 1979 for $3.6 billion although its book 
    value was only $177 million. 
    
         at berkshire, however, the two valuations have tracked 
    rather closely, with the growth rate in business value over the 
    last decade moderately outpacing the growth rate in book value.  
    this good news continued in 1987. 
    
         our premium of business value to book value has widened for 
    two simple reasons: we own some remarkable businesses and they 
    are run by even more remarkable managers. 
    
         you have a right to question that second assertion.  after 
    all, ceos seldom tell their shareholders that they have assembled 
    a bunch of turkeys to run things.  their reluctance to do so 
    makes for some strange annual reports.  oftentimes, in his 
    shareholders' letter, a ceo will go on for pages detailing 
    corporate performance that is woefully inadequate.  he will 
    nonetheless end with a warm paragraph describing his managerial 
    comrades as "our most precious asset." such comments sometimes 
    make you wonder what the other assets can possibly be. 
    
         at berkshire, however, my appraisal of our operating 
    managers is, if anything, understated.  to understand why, first 
    take a look at page 7, where we show the earnings (on an 
    historical-cost accounting basis) of our seven largest non-
    financial units:  buffalo news, fechheimer, kirby, nebraska 
    furniture mart, scott fetzer manufacturing group, see's candies, 
    and world book.  in 1987, these seven business units had combined 
    operating earnings before interest and taxes of $180 million. 
    
         by itself, this figure says nothing about economic 
    performance.  to evaluate that, we must know how much total 
    capital - debt and equity - was needed to produce these earnings.  
    debt plays an insignificant role at our seven units: their net 
    interest expense in 1987 was only $2 million.  thus, pre-tax 
    earnings on the equity capital employed by these businesses 
    amounted to $178 million.  and this equity - again on an 
    historical-cost basis - was only $175 million. 
    
         if these seven business units had operated as a single 
    company, their 1987 _after_-tax earnings would have been 
    approximately $100 million - a return of about 57% on equity 
    capital.  you'll seldom see such a percentage anywhere, let alone 
    at large, diversified companies with nominal leverage.  here's a 
    benchmark: in its 1988 investor's guide issue, _fortune_ reported 
    that among the 500 largest industrial companies and 500 largest 
    service companies, only six had averaged a return on equity of 
    over 30% during the previous decade.  the best performer among 
    the 1000 was commerce clearing house at 40.2%. 
     
         of course, the returns that berkshire earns from these seven 
    units are not as high as their underlying returns because, in 
    aggregate, we bought the businesses at a substantial premium to 
    underlying equity capital.  overall, these operations are carried 
    on our books at about $222 million above the historical 
    accounting values of the underlying assets.  however, the 
    managers of the units should be judged by the returns they 
    achieve on the underlying assets; what we pay for a business does 
    not affect the amount of capital its manager has to work with. 
    (if, to become a shareholder and part owner of commerce clearing 
    house, you pay, say, six times book value, that does not change 
    cch's return on equity.) 
    
         three important inferences can be drawn from the figures i 
    have cited.  first, the current business value of these seven 
    units is far above their historical book value and also far above 
    the value at which they are carried on berkshire's balance sheet.  
    second, because so little capital is required to run these 
    businesses, they can grow while concurrently making almost all of 
    their earnings available for deployment in new opportunities.  
    third, these businesses are run by truly extraordinary managers.  
    the blumkins, the heldmans, chuck huggins, stan lipsey, and ralph 
    schey all meld unusual talent, energy and character to achieve 
    exceptional financial results. 
    
         for good reasons, we had very high expectations when we 
    joined with these managers.  in every case, however, our 
    experience has greatly exceeded those expectations.  we have 
    received far more than we deserve, but we are willing to accept 
    such inequities. (we subscribe to the view jack benny expressed 
    upon receiving an acting award: "i don't deserve this, but then, 
    i have arthritis and i don't deserve that either.") 
    
         beyond the sainted seven, we have our other major unit, 
    insurance, which i believe also has a business value well above 
    the net assets employed in it.  however, appraising the business 
    value of a property-casualty insurance company is a decidedly 
    imprecise process.  the industry is volatile, reported earnings 
    oftentimes are seriously inaccurate, and recent changes in the 
    tax code will severely hurt future profitability.  despite these 
    problems, we like the business and it will almost certainly 
    remain our largest operation.  under mike goldberg's management, 
    the insurance business should treat us well over time. 
    
         with managers like ours, my partner, charlie munger, and i 
    have little to do with operations. in fact, it is probably fair 
    to say that if we did more, less would be accomplished.  we have 
    no corporate meetings, no corporate budgets, and no performance 
    reviews (though our managers, of course, oftentimes find such 
    procedures useful at their operating units).  after all, what can 
    we tell the blumkins about home furnishings, or the heldmans 
    about uniforms? 
    
         our major contribution to the operations of our subsidiaries 
    is applause.  but it is not the indiscriminate applause of a 
    pollyanna.  rather it is informed applause based upon the two 
    long careers we have spent intensively observing business 
    performance and managerial behavior.  charlie and i have seen so 
    much of the ordinary in business that we can truly appreciate a 
    virtuoso performance.  only one response to the 1987 performance 
    of our operating managers is appropriate: sustained, deafening 
    applause. 
    
    **sources of reported earnings **
    
         the table on the following page shows the major sources of 
    berkshire's reported earnings.  in the table, amortization of 
    goodwill and other major purchase-price accounting adjustments 
    are not charged against the specific businesses to which they 
    apply but, instead, are aggregated and shown separately.  in 
    effect, this procedure presents the earnings of our businesses as 
    they would have been reported had we not purchased them.  in 
    appendixes to my letters in the 1983 and 1986 annual reports, i 
    explained why this form of presentation seems to us to be more 
    useful to investors and managers than the standard gaap 
    presentation, which makes purchase-price adjustments on a 
    business-by business basis.  the total net earnings we show in 
    the table are, of course, identical to the gaap figures in our 
    audited financial statements. 
     
         in the business segment data on pages 36-38 and in the 
    management's discussion section on pages 40-44 you will find much 
    additional information about our businesses.  in these sections 
    you will also find our segment earnings reported on a gaap basis.  
    i urge you to read that material, as well as charlie munger's 
    letter to wesco shareholders, describing the various businesses 
    of that subsidiary, which starts on page 45. 
    _
                                                   (000s omitted) 
                                     ------------------------------------------
                                                             berkshire's share 
                                                              of net earnings 
                                                             (after taxes and 
                                       pre-tax earnings     minority interests)
                                     -------------------    -------------------
                                       1987       1986        1987       1986 _
                                     --------   --------    --------   --------
    operating earnings: 
      insurance group: 
        underwriting ............... $(55,429)  $(55,844)   $(20,696)  $(29,864) 
        net investment income ......  152,483    107,143     136,658     96,440 
      buffalo news .................   39,410     34,736      21,304     16,918 
      fechheimer (acquired 6/3/86)     13,332      8,400       6,580      3,792 
      kirby ........................   22,408     20,218      12,891     10,508 
      nebraska furniture mart ......   16,837     17,685       7,554      7,192 
      scott fetzer mfg. group ......   30,591     25,358      17,555     13,354 
      see's candies ................   31,693     30,347      17,363     15,176 
      wesco - other than insurance      6,209      5,542       4,978      5,550 
      world book ...................   25,745     21,978      15,136     11,670 
      amortization of goodwill .....   (2,862)    (2,555)     (2,862)    (2,555) 
      other purchase-price 
         accounting adjustments ....   (5,546)   (10,033)     (6,544)   (11,031) 
      interest on debt and 
         pre-payment penalty .......  (11,474)   (23,891)     (5,905)   (12,213) 
      shareholder-designated 
         contributions .............   (4,938)    (3,997)     (2,963)    (2,158) 
      other ........................   22,460     20,770      13,696      8,685 
                                     --------   --------    --------   --------
      operating earnings ...........  280,919    195,857     214,745    131,464 
      sales of securities ..........   27,319    216,242      19,807    150,897 
                                     --------   --------    --------   --------
    total earnings - all entities .. $308,238   $412,099    $234,552   $282,361 
                                     ========   ========    ========   ========
     
         gypsy rose lee announced on one of her later birthdays: "i 
    have everything i had last year; it's just that it's all two 
    inches lower." as the table shows, during 1987 almost all of our 
    businesses aged in a more upbeat way. 
    
         there's not a lot new to report about these businesses - and 
    that's good, not bad.  severe change and exceptional returns 
    usually don't mix.  most investors, of course, behave as if just 
    the opposite were true.  that is, they usually confer the highest 
    price-earnings ratios on exotic-sounding businesses that hold out 
    the promise of feverish change.  that prospect lets investors 
    fantasize about future profitability rather than face today's 
    business realities.  for such investor-dreamers, any blind date 
    is preferable to one with the girl next door, no matter how 
    desirable she may be. 
    
         experience, however, indicates that the best business 
    returns are usually achieved by companies that are doing 
    something quite similar today to what they were doing five or ten 
    years ago.  that is no argument for managerial complacency.  
    businesses always have opportunities to improve service, product 
    lines, manufacturing techniques, and the like, and obviously 
    these opportunities should be seized.  but a business that 
    constantly encounters major change also encounters many chances 
    for major error.  furthermore, economic terrain that is forever 
    shifting violently is ground on which it is difficult to build a 
    fortress-like business franchise.  such a franchise is usually 
    the key to sustained high returns. 
    
         the _fortune_ study i mentioned earlier supports our view.  
    only 25 of the 1,000 companies met two tests of economic 
    excellence - an average return on equity of over 20% in the ten 
    years, 1977 through 1986, and no year worse than 15%.  these 
    business superstars were also stock market superstars: during the 
    decade, 24 of the 25 outperformed the s&p; 500. 
     
         the _fortune_ champs may surprise you in two respects.  first, 
    most use very little leverage compared to their interest-paying 
    capacity.  really good businesses usually don't need to borrow.  
    second, except for one company that is "high-tech" and several 
    others that manufacture ethical drugs, the companies are in 
    businesses that, on balance, seem rather mundane.  most sell non-
    sexy products or services in much the same manner as they did ten 
    years ago (though in larger quantities now, or at higher prices, 
    or both).  the record of these 25 companies confirms that making 
    the most of an already strong business franchise, or 
    concentrating on a single winning business theme, is what usually 
    produces exceptional economics. 
    
         berkshire's experience has been similar.  our managers have 
    produced extraordinary results by doing rather ordinary things - 
    but doing them exceptionally well.  our managers protect their 
    franchises, they control costs, they search for new products and 
    markets that build on their existing strengths and they don't get 
    diverted.  they work exceptionally hard at the details of their 
    businesses, and it shows. 
    
         here's an update: 
    
       **o** agatha christie, whose husband was an archaeologist, said 
    that was the perfect profession for one's spouse: "the older you 
    become, the more interested they are in you." it is students of 
    business management, not archaeologists, who should be interested 
    in mrs. b (rose blumkin), the 94-year-old chairman of nebraska 
    furniture mart. 
    
         fifty years ago mrs. b started the business with $500, and 
    today nfm is far and away the largest home furnishings store in 
    the country.  mrs. b continues to work seven days a week at the 
    job from the opening of each business day until the close.  she 
    buys, she sells, she manages - and she runs rings around the 
    competition.  it's clear to me that she's gathering speed and may 
    well reach her full potential in another five or ten years.  
    therefore, i've persuaded the board to scrap our mandatory 
    retirement-at-100 policy. (and it's about time:  with every 
    passing year, this policy has seemed sillier to me.) 
    
         net sales of nfm were $142.6 million in 1987, up 8% from 
    1986.  there's nothing like this store in the country, and 
    there's nothing like the family mrs. b has produced to carry on: 
    her son louie, and his three boys, ron, irv and steve, possess 
    the business instincts, integrity and drive of mrs. b. they work 
    as a team and, strong as each is individually, the whole is far 
    greater than the sum of the parts. 
    
         the superb job done by the blumkins benefits us as owners, 
    but even more dramatically benefits nfm's customers.  they saved 
    about $30 million in 1987 by buying from nfm.  in other words, 
    the goods they bought would have cost that much more if purchased 
    elsewhere. 
    
         you'll enjoy an anonymous letter i received last august: 
    "sorry to see berkshire profits fall in the second quarter.  one 
    way you may gain back part of your lost. (sic) check the pricing 
    at the furniture mart.  you will find that they are leaving 10% 
    to 20% on the table.  this additional profit on $140 million of 
    sells (sic) is $28 million.  not small change in anyone's pocket!  
    check out other furniture, carpet, appliance and t.v. dealers.  
    your raising prices to a reasonable profit will help.  thank you. 
    /signed/ a competitor." 
    
         nfm will continue to grow and prosper by following mrs. b's 
    maxim:  "sell cheap and tell the truth." 
    
       **o** among dominant papers of its size or larger, the buffalo 
    news continues to be the national leader in two important ways: 
    (1) its weekday and sunday penetration rate (the percentage of 
    households in the paper's primary market area that purchase it); 
    and (2) its "news-hole" percentage (the portion of the paper 
    devoted to news).
    
         it may not be coincidence that one newspaper leads in both 
    categories: an exceptionally "newsrich" product makes for broad 
    audience appeal, which in turn leads to high penetration.  of 
    course, quantity must be matched by quality.  this not only 
    means good reporting and good writing; it means freshness and 
    relevance.  to be indispensable, a paper must promptly tell its 
    readers many things they want to know but won't otherwise learn 
    until much later, if ever. 
     
         at the news, we put out seven fresh editions every 24 hours, 
    each one extensively changed in content.  here's a small example 
    that may surprise you: we redo the obituary page in every edition 
    of the news, or seven times a day.  any obituary added runs 
    through the next six editions until the publishing cycle has been 
    completed. 
    
         it's vital, of course, for a newspaper to cover national and 
    international news well and in depth.  but it is also vital for 
    it to do what only a local newspaper can: promptly and 
    extensively chronicle the personally-important, otherwise-
    unreported details of community life.  doing this job well 
    requires a very broad range of news - and that means lots of 
    space, intelligently used. 
    
         our news hole was about 50% in 1987, just as it has been 
    year after year.  if we were to cut it to a more typical 40%, we 
    would save approximately $4 million annually in newsprint costs.  
    that interests us not at all - and it won't interest us even if, 
    for one reason or another, our profit margins should 
    significantly shrink. 
    
         charlie and i do not believe in flexible operating budgets, 
    as in "non-direct expenses can be x if revenues are y, but must 
    be reduced if revenues are y - 5%." should we really cut our news 
    hole at the buffalo news, or the quality of product and service 
    at see's, simply because profits are down during a given year or 
    quarter?  or, conversely, should we add a staff economist, a 
    corporate strategist, an institutional advertising campaign or 
    something else that does berkshire no good simply because the 
    money currently is rolling in? 
    
         that makes no sense to us.  we neither understand the adding 
    of unneeded people or activities because profits are booming, nor 
    the cutting of essential people or activities because 
    profitability is shrinking.  that kind of yo-yo approach is 
    neither business-like nor humane.  our goal is to do what makes 
    sense for berkshire's customers and employees at all times, and 
    never to add the unneeded. ("but what about the corporate jet?" 
    you rudely ask.  well, occasionally a man must rise above 
    principle.) 
    
         although the news' revenues have grown only moderately since 
    1984, superb management by stan lipsey, its publisher, has 
    produced excellent profit growth.  for several years, i have 
    incorrectly predicted that profit margins at the news would fall.  
    this year i will not let vou down: margins will, without 
    question, shrink in 1988 and profit may fall as well.  
    skyrocketing newsprint costs will be the major cause. 
    
       **o** fechheimer bros. company is another of our family 
    businesses - and, like the blumkins, what a family.  three 
    generations of heldmans have for decades consistently, built the 
    sales and profits of this manufacturer and distributor of 
    uniforms.  in the year that berkshire acquired its controlling 
    interest in fechheimer - 1986 - profits were a record.  the 
    heldmans didn't slow down after that.  last year earnings 
    increased substantially and the outlook is good for 1988. 
    
         there's nothing magic about the uniform business; the only 
    magic is in the heldmans.  bob, george, gary, roger and fred know 
    the business inside and out, and they have fun running it.  we 
    are fortunate to be in partnership with them. 
    
       **o** chuck huggins continues to set new records at see's, just as 
    he has ever since we put him in charge on the day of our purchase 
    some 16 years ago.  in 1987, volume hit a new high at slightly 
    under 25 million pounds.  for the second year in a row, moreover, 
    same-store sales, measured in pounds, were virtually unchanged.  
    in case you are wondering, that represents improvement: in each 
    of the previous six years, same-store sales had fallen. 
    
         although we had a particularly strong 1986 christmas season, 
    we racked up better store-for-store comparisons in the 1987 
    christmas season than at any other time of the year.  thus, the 
    seasonal factor at see's becomes even more extreme.  in 1987, 
    about 85% of our profit was earned during december. 
    
         candy stores are fun to visit, but most have not been fun 
    for their owners.  from what we can learn, practically no one 
    besides see's has made significant profits in recent years from 
    the operation of candy shops.  clearly, chuck's record at see's 
    is not due to a rising industry tide.  rather, it is a one-of-a-
    kind performance. 
     
         his achievement requires an excellent product - which we 
    have - but it also requires genuine affection for the customer.  
    chuck is 100% customer-oriented, and his attitude sets the tone 
    for the rest of the see's organization. 
    
         here's an example of chuck in action: at see's we regularly 
    add new pieces of candy to our mix and also cull a few to keep 
    our product line at about 100 varieties.  last spring we selected 
    14 items for elimination.  two, it turned out, were badly missed 
    by our customers, who wasted no time in letting us know what they 
    thought of our judgment: "a pox on all in see's who participated 
    in the abominable decision...;" "may your new truffles melt in 
    transit, may they sour in people's mouths, may your costs go up 
    and your profits go down...;" "we are investigating the 
    possibility of obtaining a mandatory injunction requiring you to 
    supply...;" you get the picture.  in all, we received many hundreds of 
    letters. 
    
         chuck not only reintroduced the pieces, he turned this 
    miscue into an opportunity.  each person who had written got a 
    complete and honest explanation in return.  said chuck's letter: 
    "fortunately, when i make poor decisions, good things often 
    happen as a result...;" and with the letter went a special gift 
    certificate. 
    
         see's increased prices only slightly in the last two years.  
    in 1988 we have raised prices somewhat more, though still 
    moderately.  to date, sales have been weak and it may be 
    difficult for see's to improve its earnings this year. 
    
       **o** world book, kirby, and the scott fetzer manufacturing group 
    are all under the management of ralph schey.  and what a lucky 
    thing for us that they are.  i told you last year that scott 
    fetzer performance in 1986 had far exceeded the expectations that 
    charlie and i had at the time of our purchase.  results in 1987 
    were even better.  pre-tax earnings rose 10% while average 
    capital employed declined significantly.     
    
         ralph's mastery of the 19 businesses for which he is 
    responsible is truly amazing, and he has also attracted some 
    outstanding managers to run them.  we would love to find a few 
    additional units that could be put under ralph's wing. 
    
         the businesses of scott fetzer are too numerous to describe 
    in detail.  let's just update you on one of our favorites: at the 
    end of 1987, world book introduced its most dramatically-revised 
    edition since 1962.  the number of color photos was increased 
    from 14,000 to 24,000; over 6,000 articles were revised; 840 new 
    contributors were added.  charlie and i recommend this product to 
    you and your family, as we do world book's products for younger 
    children, childcraft and early world of learning. 
    
         in 1987, world book unit sales in the united states 
    increased for the fifth consecutive year.  international sales 
    and profits also grew substantially.  the outlook is good for 
    scott fetzer operations in aggregate, and for world book in 
    particular. 
    
    **insurance operations **
    
         shown below is an updated version of our usual table 
    presenting key figures for the insurance industry: 
    _
                                  statutory
              yearly change    combined ratio    yearly change   inflation rate 
               in premiums   after policyholder   in incurred     measured by 
               written (%)        dividends        losses (%)   gnp deflator (%)_
              -------------  ------------------  -------------  ----------------
    1981 .....     3.8              106.0             6.5              9.6 
    1982 .....     4.4              109.8             8.4              6.4 
    1983 .....     4.6              112.0             6.8              3.8 
    1984 .....     9.2              117.9            16.9              3.7 
    1985 .....    22.1              116.3            16.1              3.2 
    1986 (rev.)   22.2              108.0            13.5              2.6 
    1987 (est.)    8.7              104.7             6.8              3.0 
     
    source:  best's insurance management reports 
     
     
         the combined ratio represents total insurance costs (losses 
    incurred plus expenses) compared to revenue from premiums: a 
    ratio below 100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 
    100 indicates a loss.  when the investment income that an insurer 
    earns from holding on to policyholders' funds ("the float") is 
    taken into account, a combined ratio in the 107-111 range 
    typically produces an overall break-even result, exclusive of 
    earnings on the funds provided by shareholders. 
    
         the math of the insurance business, encapsulated by the 
    table, is not very complicated.  in years when the industry's 
    annual gain in revenues (premiums) pokes along at 4% or 5%, 
    underwriting losses are sure to mount.  that is not because auto 
    accidents, fires, windstorms and the like are occurring more 
    frequently, nor has it lately been the fault of general 
    inflation.  today, social and judicial inflation are the major 
    culprits; the cost of entering a courtroom has simply ballooned.  
    part of the jump in cost arises from skyrocketing verdicts, and 
    part from the tendency of judges and juries to expand the 
    coverage of insurance policies beyond that contemplated by the 
    insurer when the policies were written.  seeing no let-up in 
    either trend, we continue to believe that the industry's revenues 
    must grow at about 10% annually for it to just hold its own in 
    terms of profitability, even though general inflation may be 
    running at a considerably lower rate. 
    
         the strong revenue gains of 1985-87 almost guaranteed the 
    industry an excellent underwriting performance in 1987 and, 
    indeed, it was a banner year.  but the news soured as the 
    quarters rolled by:  best's estimates that year-over-year volume 
    increases were 12.9%, 11.1%, 5.7%, and 5.6%. in 1988, the
    revenue gain is certain to be far below our 10% "equilibrium" 
    figure.  clearly, the party is over. 
    
         however, earnings will not immediately sink.  a lag factor 
    exists in this industry: because most policies are written for a 
    one-year term, higher or lower insurance prices do not have their 
    full impact on earnings until many months after they go into 
    effect.  thus, to resume our metaphor, when the party ends and 
    the bar is closed, you are allowed to finish your drink.  if 
    results are not hurt by a major natural catastrophe, we predict a 
    small climb for the industry's combined ratio in 1988, followed 
    by several years of larger increases. 
    
         the insurance industry is cursed with a set of dismal 
    economic characteristics that make for a poor long-term outlook: 
    hundreds of competitors, ease of entry, and a product that cannot 
    be differentiated in any meaningful way.  in such a commodity-
    like business, only a very low-cost operator or someone operating 
    in a protected, and usually small, niche can sustain high 
    profitability levels. 
    
         when shortages exist, however, even commodity businesses 
    flourish.  the insurance industry enjoyed that kind of climate 
    for a while but it is now gone.  one of the ironies of capitalism 
    is that most managers in commodity industries abhor shortage 
    conditions - even though those are the only circumstances 
    permitting them good returns.  whenever shortages appear, the 
    typical manager simply can't wait to expand capacity and thereby 
    plug the hole through which money is showering upon him.  this is 
    precisely what insurance managers did in 1985-87, confirming 
    again disraeli's observation: "what we learn from history is that 
    we do not learn from history." 
    
         at berkshire, we work to escape the industry's commodity 
    economics in two ways. first, we differentiate our product by our 
    financial strength, which exceeds that of all others in the 
    industry.  this strength, however, is limited in its usefulness. 
    it means nothing in the personal insurance field:  the buyer of 
    an auto or homeowners policy is going to get his claim paid even 
    if his insurer fails (as many have).  it often means nothing in 
    the commercial insurance arena: when times are good, many major 
    corporate purchasers of insurance and their brokers pay scant 
    attention to the insurer's ability to perform under the more 
    adverse conditions that may exist, say, five years later when a 
    complicated claim is finally resolved. (out of sight, out of mind 
    - and, later on, maybe out-of-pocket.) 
    
         periodically, however, buyers remember ben franklin's 
    observation that it is hard for an empty sack to stand upright 
    and recognize their need to buy promises only from insurers that 
    have enduring financial strength.  it is then that we have a 
    major competitive advantage.  when a buyer really focuses on 
    whether a $10 million claim can be easily paid by his insurer 
    five or ten years down the road, and when he takes into account 
    the possibility that poor underwriting conditions may then 
    coincide with depressed financial markets and defaults by 
    reinsurer, he will find only a few companies he can trust.  
    among those, berkshire will lead the pack. 
     
         our second method of differentiating ourselves is the total 
    indifference to volume that we maintain.  in 1989, we will be 
    perfectly willing to write five times as much business as we 
    write in 1988 - or only one-fifth as much.  we hope, of course, 
    that conditions will allow us large volume.  but we cannot 
    control market prices.  if they are unsatisfactory, we will 
    simply do very little business.  no other major insurer acts with 
    equal restraint. 
    
         three conditions that prevail in insurance, but not in most 
    businesses, allow us our flexibility.  first, market share is not 
    an important determinant of profitability: in this business, in 
    contrast to the newspaper or grocery businesses, the economic 
    rule is not survival of the fattest.  second, in many sectors of 
    insurance, including most of those in which we operate, 
    distribution channels are not proprietary and can be easily 
    entered: small volume this year does not preclude huge volume 
    next year.  third, idle capacity - which in this industry largely 
    means people - does not result in intolerable costs.  in a way 
    that industries such as printing or steel cannot, we can operate 
    at quarter-speed much of the time and still enjoy long-term 
    prosperity. 
    
         we follow a price-based-on-exposure, not-on-competition 
    policy because it makes sense for our shareholders.  but we're 
    happy to report that it is also pro-social.  this policy means 
    that we are always available, given prices that we believe are 
    adequate, to write huge volumes of almost any type of property-
    casualty insurance.  many other insurers follow an in-and-out 
    approach.  when they are "out" - because of mounting losses, 
    capital inadequacy, or whatever - we are available.  of course, 
    when others are panting to do business we are also available - 
    but at such times we often find ourselves priced above the 
    market.  in effect, we supply insurance buyers and brokers with a 
    large reservoir of standby capacity. 
    
         one story from mid-1987 illustrates some consequences of our 
    pricing policy:  one of the largest family-owned insurance 
    brokers in the country is headed by a fellow who has long been a 
    shareholder of berkshire.  this man handles a number of large 
    risks that are candidates for placement with our new york office.  
    naturally, he does the best he can for his clients.  and, just as 
    naturally, when the insurance market softened dramatically in 
    1987 he found prices at other insurers lower than we were willing 
    to offer.  his reaction was, first, to place all of his business 
    elsewhere and, second, to buy more stock in berkshire.  had we 
    been really competitive, he said, we would have gotten his 
    insurance business but he would not have bought our stock. 
    
         berkshire's underwriting experience was excellent in 1987, 
    in part because of the lag factor discussed earlier.  our 
    combined ratio (on a statutory basis and excluding structured 
    settlements and financial reinsurance) was 105.  although the 
    ratio was somewhat less favorable than in 1986, when it was 103, 
    our profitability improved materially in 1987 because we had the 
    use of far more float.  this trend will continue to run in our 
    favor: our ratio of float to premium volume will increase very 
    significantly during the next few years.  thus, berkshire's 
    insurance profits are quite likely to improve during 1988 and 
    1989, even though we expect our combined ratio to rise. 
    
         our insurance business has also made some important non-
    financial gains during the last few years.  mike goldberg, its 
    manager, has assembled a group of talented professionals to write 
    larger risks and unusual coverages.  his operation is now well 
    equipped to handle the lines of business that will occasionally 
    offer us major opportunities. 
    
         our loss reserve development, detailed on pages 41-42, looks 
    better this year than it has previously.  but we write lots of 
    "long-tail" business - that is, policies generating claims that 
    often take many years to resolve.  examples would be product 
    liability, or directors and officers liability coverages.  with a 
    business mix like this, one year of reserve development tells you 
    very little. 
    
         you should be very suspicious of any earnings figures 
    reported by insurers (including our own, as we have unfortunately 
    proved to you in the past).  the record of the last decade shows 
    that a great many of our best-known insurers have reported 
    earnings to shareholders that later proved to be wildly 
    erroneous.  in most cases, these errors were totally innocent: 
    the unpredictability of our legal system makes it impossible for 
    even the most conscientious insurer to come close to judging the 
    eventual cost of long-tail claims. 
     
         nevertheless, auditors annually certify the numbers given 
    them by management and in their opinions unqualifiedly state that 
    these figures "present fairly" the financial position of their 
    clients.  the auditors use this reassuring language even though 
    they know from long and painful experience that the numbers so 
    certified are likely to differ dramatically from the true 
    earnings of the period.  despite this history of error, investors 
    understandably rely upon auditors' opinions.  after all, a 
    declaration saying that "the statements present fairly" hardly 
    sounds equivocal to the non-accountant. 
    
         the wording in the auditor's standard opinion letter is 
    scheduled to change next year.  the new language represents 
    improvement, but falls far short of describing the limitations of 
    a casualty-insurer audit.  if it is to depict the true state of 
    affairs, we believe the standard opinion letter to shareholders 
    of a property-casualty company should read something like: "we 
    have relied upon representations of management in respect to the 
    liabilities shown for losses and loss adjustment expenses, the 
    estimate of which, in turn, very materially affects the earnings 
    and financial condition herein reported.  we can express no 
    opinion about the accuracy of these figures.  subject to that 
    important reservation, in our opinion, etc." 
    
         if lawsuits develop in respect to wildly inaccurate 
    financial statements (which they do), auditors will definitely 
    say something of that sort in court anyway.  why should they not 
    be forthright about their role and its limitations from the 
    outset? 
    
         we want to emphasize that we are not faulting auditors for 
    their inability to accurately assess loss reserves (and therefore 
    earnings).  we fault them only for failing to publicly 
    acknowledge that they can't do this job. 
    
         from all appearances, the innocent mistakes that are 
    constantly made in reserving are accompanied by others that are 
    deliberate.  various charlatans have enriched themselves at the 
    expense of the investing public by exploiting, first, the 
    inability of auditors to evaluate reserve figures and, second, 
    the auditors' willingness to confidently certify those figures as 
    if they had the expertise to do so.  we will continue to see such 
    chicanery in the future.  where "earnings" can be created by the 
    stroke of a pen, the dishonest will gather.  for them, long-tail 
    insurance is heaven.  the audit wording we suggest would at least 
    serve to put investors on guard against these predators. 
    
         the taxes that insurance companies pay - which increased 
    materially, though on a delayed basis, upon enactment of the tax 
    reform act of 1986 - took a further turn for the worse at the end 
    of 1987.  we detailed the 1986 changes in last year's report.  we 
    also commented on the irony of a statute that substantially 
    increased 1987 reported earnings for insurers even as it 
    materially reduced both their long-term earnings potential and 
    their business value.  at berkshire, the temporarily-helpful 
    "fresh start" adjustment inflated 1987 earnings by $8.2 million. 
    
         in our opinion, the 1986 act was the most important economic 
    event affecting the insurance industry over the past decade.  the 
    1987 bill further reduced the intercorporate dividends-received 
    credit from 80% to 70%, effective january 1, 1988, except for 
    cases in which the taxpayer owns at least 20% of an investee. 
    
         investors who have owned stocks or bonds through corporate 
    intermediaries other than qualified investment companies have 
    always been disadvantaged in comparison to those owning the same 
    securities directly.  the penalty applying to indirect ownership 
    was greatly increased by the 1986 tax bill and, to a lesser 
    extent, by the 1987 bill, particularly in instances where the 
    intermediary is an insurance company.  we have no way of 
    offsetting this increased level of taxation.  it simply means 
    that a given set of pre-tax investment returns will now translate 
    into much poorer after-tax results for our shareholders. 
    
         all in all, we expect to do well in the insurance business, 
    though our record is sure to be uneven.  the immediate outlook is 
    for substantially lower volume but reasonable earnings 
    improvement.  the decline in premium volume will accelerate after 
    our quota-share agreement with fireman's fund expires in 1989.  
    at some point, likely to be at least a few years away, we may see 
    some major opportunities, for which we are now much better 
    prepared than we were in 1985. 
     
    **marketable securities - permanent holdings**
    
         whenever charlie and i buy common stocks for berkshire's 
    insurance companies (leaving aside arbitrage purchases, discussed 
    later) we approach the transaction as if we were buying into a 
    private business.  we look at the economic prospects of the 
    business, the people in charge of running it, and the price we 
    must pay.  we do not have in mind any time or price for sale.  
    indeed, we are willing to hold a stock indefinitely so long as we 
    expect the business to increase in intrinsic value at a 
    satisfactory rate.  when investing, we view ourselves as business 
    analysts - not as market analysts, not as macroeconomic analysts, 
    and not even as security analysts. 
    
         our approach makes an active trading market useful, since it 
    periodically presents us with mouth-watering opportunities.  but 
    by no means is it essential: a prolonged suspension of trading in 
    the securities we hold would not bother us any more than does the 
    lack of daily quotations on world book or fechheimer.  
    eventually, our economic fate will be determined by the economic 
    fate of the business we own, whether our ownership is partial or 
    total. 
    
         ben graham, my friend and teacher, long ago described the 
    mental attitude toward market fluctuations that i believe to be 
    most conducive to investment success.  he said that you should 
    imagine market quotations as coming from a remarkably 
    accommodating fellow named mr. market who is your partner in a 
    private business.  without fail, mr. market appears daily and 
    names a price at which he will either buy your interest or sell 
    you his. 
    
         even though the business that the two of you own may have 
    economic characteristics that are stable, mr. market's quotations 
    will be anything but.  for, sad to say, the poor fellow has 
    incurable emotional problems.  at times he feels euphoric and can 
    see only the favorable factors affecting the business.  when in 
    that mood, he names a very high buy-sell price because he fears 
    that you will snap up his interest and rob him of imminent gains.  
    at other times he is depressed and can see nothing but trouble 
    ahead for both the business and the world.  on these occasions he 
    will name a very low price, since he is terrified that you will 
    unload your interest on him. 
    
         mr. market has another endearing characteristic: he doesn't 
    mind being ignored.  if his quotation is uninteresting to you 
    today, he will be back with a new one tomorrow.  transactions are 
    strictly at your option.  under these conditions, the more manic-
    depressive his behavior, the better for you. 
    
         but, like cinderella at the ball, you must heed one warning 
    or everything will turn into pumpkins and mice: mr. market is 
    there to serve you, not to guide you.  it is his pocketbook, not 
    his wisdom, that you will find useful.  if he shows up some day 
    in a particularly foolish mood, you are free to either ignore him 
    or to take advantage of him, but it will be disastrous if you 
    fall under his influence.  indeed, if you aren't certain that you 
    understand and can value your business far better than mr. 
    market, you don't belong in the game.  as they say in poker, "if 
    you've been in the game 30 minutes and you don't know who the 
    patsy is, _you're_ the patsy." 
    
         ben's mr. market allegory may seem out-of-date in today's 
    investment world, in which most professionals and academicians 
    talk of efficient markets, dynamic hedging and betas.  their 
    interest in such matters is understandable, since techniques 
    shrouded in mystery clearly have value to the purveyor of 
    investment advice.  after all, what witch doctor has ever 
    achieved fame and fortune by simply advising "take two aspirins"? 
    
         the value of market esoterica to the consumer of investment 
    advice is a different story.  in my opinion, investment success 
    will not be produced by arcane formulae, computer programs or 
    signals flashed by the price behavior of stocks and markets.  
    rather an investor will succeed by coupling good business 
    judgment with an ability to insulate his thoughts and behavior 
    from the super-contagious emotions that swirl about the 
    marketplace.  in my own efforts to stay insulated, i have found 
    it highly useful to keep ben's mr. market concept firmly in mind. 
     
         following ben's teachings, charlie and i let our marketable 
    equities tell us by their operating results - not by their daily, 
    or even yearly, price quotations - whether our investments are 
    successful.  the market may ignore business success for a while, 
    but eventually will confirm it.  as ben said: "in the short run, 
    the market is a voting machine but in the long run it is a 
    weighing machine." the speed at which a business's success is 
    recognized, furthermore, is not that important as long as the 
    company's intrinsic value is increasing at a satisfactory rate.  
    in fact, delayed recognition can be an advantage: it may give us 
    the chance to buy more of a good thing at a bargain price. 
    
         sometimes, of course, the market may judge a business to be 
    more valuable than the underlying facts would indicate it is.  in 
    such a case, we will sell our holdings.  sometimes, also, we will 
    sell a security that is fairly valued or even undervalued because 
    we require funds for a still more undervalued investment or one 
    we believe we understand better. 
    
         we need to emphasize, however, that we do not sell holdings 
    just because they have appreciated or because we have held them 
    for a long time. (of wall street maxims the most foolish may be 
    "you can't go broke taking a profit.") we are quite content to 
    hold any security indefinitely, so long as the prospective return 
    on equity capital of the underlying business is satisfactory, 
    management is competent and honest, and the market does not 
    overvalue the business. 
    
         however, our insurance companies own three marketable common 
    stocks that we would not sell even though they became far 
    overpriced in the market.  in effect, we view these investments 
    exactly like our successful controlled businesses - a permanent 
    part of berkshire rather than merchandise to be disposed of once 
    mr. market offers us a sufficiently high price.  to that, i will 
    add one qualifier: these stocks are held by our insurance 
    companies and we would, if absolutely necessary, sell portions of 
    our holdings to pay extraordinary insurance losses.  we intend, 
    however, to manage our affairs so that sales are never required. 
    
         a determination to have and to hold, which charlie and i 
    share, obviously involves a mixture of personal and financial 
    considerations.  to some, our stand may seem highly eccentric. 
    (charlie and i have long followed david oglivy's advice: "develop 
    your eccentricities while you are young.  that way, when you get 
    old, people won't think you're going ga-ga.") certainly, in the 
    transaction-fixated wall street of recent years, our posture must 
    seem odd: to many in that arena, both companies and stocks are 
    seen only as raw material for trades. 
    
         our attitude, however, fits our personalities and the way we 
    want to live our lives.  churchill once said, "you shape your 
    houses and then they shape you." we know the manner in which we 
    wish to be shaped.  for that reason, we would rather achieve a 
    return of x while associating with people whom we strongly like 
    and admire than realize 110% of x by exchanging these 
    relationships for uninteresting or unpleasant ones.  and we will 
    never find people we like and admire more than some of the main 
    participants at the three companies - our permanent holdings - 
    shown below: 
    _
    no. of shares                                          cost       market
    -------------                                       ----------  ----------
                                                            (000s omitted) _
      3,000,000    capital cities/abc, inc. ...........  $517,500   $1,035,000 
      6,850,000    geico corporation ..................    45,713      756,925 
      1,727,765    the washington post company ........     9,731      323,092 
     
         we really don't see many fundamental differences between the 
    purchase of a controlled business and the purchase of marketable 
    holdings such as these.  in each case we try to buy into 
    businesses with favorable long-term economics.  our goal is to 
    find an outstanding business at a sensible price, not a mediocre 
    business at a bargain price.  charlie and i have found that 
    making silk purses out of silk is the best that we can do; with 
    sow's ears, we fail. 
    
         (it must be noted that your chairman, always a quick study, 
    required only 20 years to recognize how important it was to buy 
    good businesses.  in the interim, i searched for "bargains" - and 
    had the misfortune to find some.  my punishment was an education 
    in the economics of short-line farm implement manufacturers, 
    third-place department stores, and new england textile 
    manufacturers.) 
     
         of course, charlie and i may misread the fundamental 
    economics of a business.  when that happens, we will encounter 
    problems whether that business is a wholly-owned subsidiary or a 
    marketable security, although it is usually far easier to exit 
    from the latter. (indeed, businesses can be misread:  witness the 
    european reporter who, after being sent to this country to 
    profile andrew carnegie, cabled his editor, "my god, you'll never 
    believe the sort of money there is in running libraries.") 
    
         in making both control purchases and stock purchases, we try 
    to buy not only good businesses, but ones run by high-grade, 
    talented and likeable managers.  if we make a mistake about the 
    managers we link up with, the controlled company offers a certain 
    advantage because we have the power to effect change.  in 
    practice, however, this advantage is somewhat illusory: 
    management changes, like marital changes, are painful, time-
    consuming and chancy.  in any event, at our three marketable-but 
    permanent holdings, this point is moot:  with tom murphy and dan 
    burke at cap cities, bill snyder and lou simpson at geico, and 
    kay graham and dick simmons at the washington post, we simply 
    couldn't be in better hands. 
    
         i would say that the controlled company offers two main 
    advantages.  first, when we control a company we get to allocate 
    capital, whereas we are likely to have little or nothing to say 
    about this process with marketable holdings.  this point can be 
    important because the heads of many companies are not skilled in 
    capital allocation.  their inadequacy is not surprising.  most 
    bosses rise to the top because they have excelled in an area such 
    as marketing, production, engineering, administration or, 
    sometimes, institutional politics. 
    
         once they become ceos, they face new responsibilities.  they 
    now must make capital allocation decisions, a critical job that 
    they may have never tackled and that is not easily mastered.  to 
    stretch the point, it's as if the final step for a highly-
    talented musician was not to perform at carnegie hall but, 
    instead, to be named chairman of the federal reserve. 
    
         the lack of skill that many ceos have at capital allocation 
    is no small matter: after ten years on the job, a ceo whose 
    company annually retains earnings equal to 10% of net worth will 
    have been responsible for the deployment of more than 60% of all 
    the capital at work in the business. 
    
         ceos who recognize their lack of capital-allocation skills 
    (which not all do) will often try to compensate by turning to 
    their staffs, management consultants, or investment bankers.  
    charlie and i have frequently observed the consequences of such 
    "help." on balance, we feel it is more likely to accentuate the 
    capital-allocation problem than to solve it. 
    
         in the end, plenty of unintelligent capital allocation takes 
    place in corporate america. (that's why you hear so much about 
    "restructuring.") berkshire, however, has been fortunate.  at the 
    companies that are our major non-controlled holdings, capital has 
    generally been well-deployed and, in some cases, brilliantly so. 
    
         the second advantage of a controlled company over a 
    marketable security has to do with taxes.  berkshire, as a 
    corporate holder, absorbs some significant tax costs through the 
    ownership of partial positions that we do not when our ownership 
    is 80%, or greater.  such tax disadvantages have long been with 
    us, but changes in the tax code caused them to increase 
    significantly during the past year.  as a consequence, a given 
    business result can now deliver berkshire financial results that 
    are as much as 50% better if they come from an 80%-or-greater 
    holding rather than from a lesser holding. 
    
         the disadvantages of owning marketable securities are 
    sometimes offset by a huge advantage:  occasionally the stock 
    market offers us the chance to buy non-controlling pieces of 
    extraordinary businesses at truly ridiculous prices - 
    dramatically below those commanded in negotiated transactions 
    that transfer control.  for example, we purchased our washington 
    post stock in 1973 at $5.63 per share, and per-share operating 
    earnings in 1987 after taxes were $10.30.  similarly, our geico 
    stock was purchased in 1976, 1979 and 1980 at an average of $6.67 
    per share, and after-tax operating earnings per share last year 
    were $9.01. in cases such as these, mr. market has proven to be a 
    mighty good friend. 
     
         an interesting accounting irony overlays a comparison of the 
    reported financial results of our controlled companies with those 
    of the permanent minority holdings listed above.  as you can see, 
    those three stocks have a market value of over $2 billion.  yet 
    they produced only $11 million in reported after-tax earnings for 
    berkshire in 1987. 
    
         accounting rules dictate that we take into income only the 
    dividends these companies pay us - which are little more than 
    nominal - rather than our share of their earnings, which in 1987 
    amounted to well over $100 million.  on the other hand, 
    accounting rules provide that the carrying value of these three 
    holdings - owned, as they are, by insurance companies - must be 
    recorded on our balance sheet at current market prices.  the 
    result: gaap accounting lets us reflect in our net worth the up-
    to-date underlying values of the businesses we partially own, but 
    does not let us reflect their underlying earnings in our income 
    account. 
    
         in the case of our controlled companies, just the opposite 
    is true.  here, we show full earnings in our income account but 
    never change asset values on our balance sheet, no matter how 
    much the value of a business might have increased since we 
    purchased it. 
    
         our mental approach to this accounting schizophrenia is to 
    ignore gaap figures and to focus solely on the future earning 
    power of both our controlled and non-controlled businesses.  
    using this approach, we establish our own ideas of business 
    value, keeping these independent from both the accounting values 
    shown on our books for controlled companies and the values placed 
    by a sometimes foolish market on our partially-owned companies.  
    it is this business value that we hope to increase at a 
    reasonable (or, preferably, unreasonable) rate in the years 
    ahead. 
    
    **marketable securities - other**
    
         in addition to our three permanent common stock holdings, we 
    hold large quantities of marketable securities in our insurance 
    companies.  in selecting these, we can choose among five major 
    categories: (1) long-term common stock investments, (2) medium-
    term fixed-income securities, (3) long-term fixed income 
    securities, (4) short-term cash equivalents, and (5) short-term 
    arbitrage commitments. 
    
         we have no particular bias when it comes to choosing from 
    these categories.  we just continuously search among them for the 
    highest after-tax returns as measured by "mathematical 
    expectation," limiting ourselves always to investment 
    alternatives we think we understand.  our criteria have nothing 
    to do with maximizing immediately reportable earnings; our goal, 
    rather, is to maximize eventual net worth. 
    
       **o** let's look first at common stocks.  during 1987 the stock 
    market was an area of much excitement but little net movement: 
    the dow advanced 2.3% for the year.  you are aware, of course, of 
    the roller coaster ride that produced this minor change.  mr. 
    market was on a manic rampage until october and then experienced 
    a sudden, massive seizure. 
    
         we have "professional" investors, those who manage many 
    billions, to thank for most of this turmoil.  instead of focusing 
    on what businesses will do in the years ahead, many prestigious 
    money managers now focus on what they expect other money managers 
    to do in the days ahead.  for them, stocks are merely tokens in a 
    game, like the thimble and flatiron in monopoly. 
     
         an extreme example of what their attitude leads to is 
    "portfolio insurance," a money-management strategy that many 
    leading investment advisors embraced in 1986-1987.  this strategy 
    - which is simply an exotically-labeled version of the small 
    speculator's stop-loss order dictates that ever increasing 
    portions of a stock portfolio, or their index-future equivalents, 
    be sold as prices decline.  the strategy says nothing else 
    matters: a downtick of a given magnitude automatically produces a 
    huge sell order.  according to the brady report, $60 billion to 
    $90 billion of equities were poised on this hair trigger in mid-
    october of 1987. 
     
         if you've thought that investment advisors were hired to 
    invest, you may be bewildered by this technique.  after buying a 
    farm, would a rational owner next order his real estate agent to 
    start selling off pieces of it whenever a neighboring property 
    was sold at a lower price?  or would you sell your house to 
    whatever bidder was available at 9:31 on some morning merely 
    because at 9:30 a similar house sold for less than it would have 
    brought on the previous day? 
     
         moves like that, however, are what portfolio insurance tells 
    a pension fund or university to make when it owns a portion of 
    enterprises such as ford or general electric.  the less these 
    companies are being valued at, says this approach, the more 
    vigorously they should be sold.  as a "logical" corollary, the 
    approach commands the institutions to repurchase these companies 
    - _i'm not making this up_ - once their prices have rebounded 
    significantly.  considering that huge sums are controlled by 
    managers following such alice-in-wonderland practices, is it any 
    surprise that markets sometimes behave in aberrational fashion? 
    
         many commentators, however, have drawn an incorrect 
    conclusion upon observing recent events: they are fond of saying 
    that the small investor has no chance in a market now dominated 
    by the erratic behavior of the big boys.  this conclusion is dead 
    wrong: such markets are ideal for any investor - small or large - 
    so long as he sticks to his investment knitting.  volatility 
    caused by money managers who speculate irrationally with huge 
    sums will offer the true investor more chances to make 
    intelligent investment moves.  he can be hurt by such volatility 
    only if he is forced, by either financial or psychological 
    pressures, to sell at untoward times. 
    
         at berkshire, we have found little to do in stocks during 
    the past few years.  during the break in october, a few stocks 
    fell to prices that interested us, but we were unable to make 
    meaningful purchases before they rebounded.  at yearend 1987 we 
    had no major common stock investments (that is, over $50 million) 
    other than those we consider permanent or arbitrage holdings.  
    however, mr. market will offer us opportunities - you can be sure 
    of that - and, when he does, we will be willing and able to 
    participate. 
    
       **o** in the meantime, our major parking place for money is 
    medium-term tax-exempt bonds, whose limited virtues i explained 
    in last year's annual report.  though we both bought and sold 
    some of these bonds in 1987, our position changed little overall, 
    holding around $900 million.  a large portion of our bonds are 
    "grandfathered" under the tax reform act of 1986, which means 
    they are fully tax-exempt.  bonds currently purchased by 
    insurance companies are not. 
    
         as an alternative to short-term cash equivalents, our 
    medium-term tax-exempts have - so far served us well.  they have 
    produced substantial extra income for us and are currently worth 
    a bit above our cost.  regardless of their market price, we are 
    ready to dispose of our bonds whenever something better comes 
    along. 
    
       **o** we continue to have an aversion to long-term bonds (and may 
    be making a serious mistake by not disliking medium-term bonds as 
    well).  bonds are no better than the currency in which they are 
    denominated, and nothing we have seen in the past year - or past 
    decade - makes us enthusiastic about the long-term future of u.s. 
    currency. 
    
         our enormous trade deficit is causing various forms of 
    "claim checks" - u.s. government and corporate bonds, bank 
    deposits, etc. - to pile up in the hands of foreigners at a 
    distressing rate.  by default, our government has adopted an 
    approach to its finances patterned on that of blanche dubois, of 
    _a streetcar named desire_, who said, "i have always depended on 
    the kindness of strangers." in this case, of course, the 
    "strangers" are relying on the integrity of our claim checks 
    although the plunging dollar has already made that proposition 
    expensive for them. 
    
         the faith that foreigners are placing in us may be 
    misfounded.  when the claim checks outstanding grow sufficiently 
    numerous and when the issuing party can unilaterally determine 
    their purchasing power, the pressure on the issuer to dilute 
    their value by inflating the currency becomes almost 
    irresistible.  for the debtor government, the weapon of inflation 
    is the economic equivalent of the "h" bomb, and that is why very 
    few countries have been allowed to swamp the world with debt 
    denominated in their own currency.  our past, relatively good 
    record for fiscal integrity has let us break this rule, but the 
    generosity accorded us is likely to intensify, rather than 
    relieve, the eventual pressure on us to inflate.  if we do 
    succumb to that pressure, it won't be just the foreign holders of 
    our claim checks who will suffer.  it will be all of us as well. 
    
         of course, the u.s. may take steps to stem our trade deficit 
    well before our position as a net debtor gets out of hand. (in 
    that respect, the falling dollar will help, though unfortunately 
    it will hurt in other ways.) nevertheless, our government's 
    behavior in this test of its mettle is apt to be consistent with 
    its scarlett o'hara approach generally: "i'll think about it 
    tomorrow." and, almost inevitably, procrastination in facing up 
    to fiscal problems will have inflationary consequences. 
     
         both the timing and the sweep of those consequences are 
    unpredictable.  but our inability to quantify or time the risk 
    does not mean we should ignore it.  while recognizing the 
    possibility that we may be wrong and that present interest rates 
    may adequately compensate for the inflationary risk, we retain a 
    general fear of long-term bonds. 
    
         we are, however, willing to invest a moderate portion of our 
    funds in this category if we think we have a significant edge in 
    a specific security.  that willingness explains our holdings of 
    the washington public power supply systems #1, #2 and #3 issues, 
    discussed in our 1984 report.  we added to our wppss position 
    during 1987.  at yearend, we had holdings with an amortized cost 
    of $240 million and a market value of $316 million, paying us 
    tax-exempt income of $34 million annually. 
    
       **o** we continued to do well in arbitrage last year, though - or 
    perhaps because - we operated on a very limited scale.  we enter 
    into only a few arbitrage commitments each year and restrict 
    ourselves to large transactions that have been publicly 
    announced.  we do not participate in situations in which green-
    mailers are attempting to put a target company "in play." 
    
         we have practiced arbitrage on an opportunistic basis for 
    decades and, to date, our results have been quite good.  though 
    we've never made an exact calculation, i believe that overall we 
    have averaged annual pre-tax returns of at least 25% from 
    arbitrage.  i'm quite sure we did better than that in 1987.  but 
    it should be emphasized that a really bad experience or two - 
    such as many arbitrage operations suffered in late 1987 - could 
    change the figures dramatically. 
    
         our only $50 million-plus arbitrage position at yearend 1987 
    was 1,096,200 shares of allegis, with a cost of $76 million and a 
    market value of $78 million. 
    
       **o** we had two other large holdings at yearend that do not fit 
    precisely into any of our five categories.  one was various 
    texaco, inc. bonds with short maturities, all purchased after 
    texaco went into bankruptcy.  were it not for the extraordinarily 
    strong capital position of our insurance companies, it would be 
    inappropriate for us to buy defaulted bonds.  at prices 
    prevailing after texaco's bankruptcy filing, however, we regarded 
    these issues as by far the most attractive bond investment 
    available to us. 
    
         on a worst-case basis with respect to the pennzoil 
    litigation, we felt the bonds were likely to be worth about what 
    we paid for them.  given a sensible settlement, which seemed 
    likely, we expected the bonds to be worth considerably more.  at 
    yearend our texaco bonds were carried on our books at $104 
    million and had a market value of $119 million. 
    
         by far our largest - and most publicized - investment in 
    1987 was a $700 million purchase of salomon inc 9% preferred 
    stock.  this preferred is convertible after three years into 
    salomon common stock at $38 per share and, if not converted, will 
    be redeemed ratably over five years beginning october 31, 1995.  
    from most standpoints, this commitment fits into the medium-term 
    fixed-income securities category.  in addition, we have an 
    interesting conversion possibility. 
    
         we, of course, have no special insights regarding the 
    direction or future profitability of investment banking.  by 
    their nature, the economics of this industry are far less 
    predictable than those of most other industries in which we have 
    major commitments.  this unpredictability is one of the reasons 
    why our participation is in the form of a convertible preferred. 
    
         what we do have a strong feeling about is the ability and 
    integrity of john gutfreund, ceo of salomon inc.  charlie and i 
    like, admire and trust john.  we first got to know him in 1976 
    when he played a key role in geico's escape from near-bankruptcy.  
    several times since, we have seen john steer clients away from 
    transactions that would have been unwise, but that the client 
    clearly wanted to make - even though his advice provided no fee 
    to salomon and acquiescence would have delivered a large fee.  
    such service-above-self behavior is far from automatic in wall 
    street. 
    
         for the reasons charlie outlines on page 50, at yearend we 
    valued our salomon investment at 98% of par, $14 million less 
    than our cost.  however, we believe there is a reasonable 
    likelihood that a leading, high-quality capital-raising and 
    market-making operation can average good returns on equity.  if 
    so, our conversion right will eventually prove to be valuable. 
     
         two further comments about our investments in marketable 
    securities are appropriate.  first, we give you our usual 
    warning: our holdings have changed since yearend and will 
    continue to do so without notice. 
    
         the second comment is related: during 1987, as in some 
    earlier years, there was speculation in the press from time to 
    time about our purchase or sale of various securities.  these 
    stories were sometimes true, sometimes partially true, and other 
    times completely untrue.  interestingly, there has been no 
    correlation between the size and prestige of the publication and 
    the accuracy of the report.  one dead-wrong rumor was given 
    considerable prominence by a major national magazine, and another 
    leading publication misled its readers by writing about an 
    arbitrage position as if it were a long-term investment 
    commitment. (in not naming names, i am observing the old warning 
    that it's not wise to pick fights with people who buy ink by the 
    barrel.) 
    
         you should understand that we simply don't comment in any 
    way on rumors, whether they are true or false.  if we were to 
    deny the incorrect reports and refuse comment on the correct 
    ones, we would in effect be commenting on all. 
    
         in a world in which big investment ideas are both limited 
    and valuable, we have no interest in telling potential 
    competitors what we are doing except to the extent required by 
    law.  we certainly don't expect others to tell us of their 
    investment ideas.  nor would we expect a media company to 
    disclose news of acquisitions it was privately pursuing or a 
    journalist to tell his competitors about stories on which he is 
    working or sources he is using. 
    
         i find it uncomfortable when friends or acquaintances 
    mention that they are buying x because it has been reported - 
    incorrectly - that berkshire is a buyer.  however, i do not set 
    them straight.  if they want to participate in whatever berkshire 
    actually is buying, they can always purchase berkshire stock.  
    but perhaps that is too simple.  usually, i suspect, they find it 
    more exciting to buy what is being talked about.  whether that 
    strategy is more profitable is another question. 
    
    **financing**
     
         shortly after yearend, berkshire sold two issues of 
    debentures, totaling $250 million.  both issues mature in 2018 
    and will be retired at an even pace through sinking fund 
    operations that begin in 1999.  our overall interest cost, after 
    allowing for expenses of issuance, is slightly over 10%.  salomon 
    was our investment banker, and its service was excellent. 
    
         despite our pessimistic views about inflation, our taste for 
    debt is quite limited.  to be sure, it is likely that berkshire 
    could improve its return on equity by moving to a much higher, 
    though still conventional, debt-to-business-value ratio.  it's 
    even more likely that we could handle such a ratio, without 
    problems, under economic conditions far worse than any that have 
    prevailed since the early 1930s. 
    
         but we do not wish it to be only likely that we can meet our 
    obligations; we wish that to be certain.  thus we adhere to 
    policies - both in regard to debt and all other matters - that 
    will allow us to achieve acceptable long-term results under 
    extraordinarily adverse conditions, rather than optimal results 
    under a normal range of conditions. 
    
         good business or investment decisions will eventually 
    produce quite satisfactory economic results, with no aid from 
    leverage.  therefore, it seems to us to be both foolish and 
    improper to risk what is important (including, necessarily, the 
    welfare of innocent bystanders such as policyholders and 
    employees) for some extra returns that are relatively 
    unimportant.  this view is not the product of either our 
    advancing age or prosperity: our opinions about debt have 
    remained constant. 
    
         however, we are not phobic about borrowing. (we're far from 
    believing that there is no fate worse than debt.) we are willing 
    to borrow an amount that we believe - on a worst-case basis - 
    will pose no threat to berkshire's well-being.  analyzing what 
    that amount might be, we can look to some important strengths 
    that would serve us well if major problems should engulf our 
    economy: berkshire's earnings come from many diverse and well-
    entrenched businesses; these businesses seldom require much 
    capital investment; what debt we have is structured well; and we 
    maintain major holdings of liquid assets.  clearly, we could be 
    comfortable with a higher debt-to-business-value ratio than we 
    now have. 
    
         one further aspect of our debt policy deserves comment: 
    unlike many in the business world, we prefer to finance in 
    anticipation of need rather than in reaction to it.  a business 
    obtains the best financial results possible by managing both 
    sides of its balance sheet well.  this means obtaining the 
    highest-possible return on assets and the lowest-possible cost on 
    liabilities.  it would be convenient if opportunities for 
    intelligent action on both fronts coincided.  however, reason 
    tells us that just the opposite is likely to be the case: tight 
    money conditions, which translate into high costs for 
    liabilities, will create the best opportunities for acquisitions, 
    and cheap money will cause assets to be bid to the sky.  our 
    conclusion:  action on the liability side should sometimes be 
    taken independent of any action on the asset side. 
    
         alas, what is "tight" and "cheap" money is far from clear at 
    any particular time.  we have no ability to forecast interest 
    rates and - maintaining our usual open-minded spirit - believe 
    that no one else can.  therefore, we simply borrow when 
    conditions seem non-oppressive and hope that we will later find 
    intelligent expansion or acquisition opportunities, which - as we 
    have said - are most likely to pop up when conditions in the debt 
    market are clearly oppressive.  our basic principle is that if 
    you want to shoot rare, fast-moving elephants, you should always 
    carry a loaded gun. 
    
         our fund-first, buy-or-expand-later policy almost always 
    penalizes near-term earnings.  for example, we are now earning 
    about 6 1/2% on the $250 million we recently raised at 10%, a 
    disparity that is currently costing us about $160,000 per week.  
    this negative spread is unimportant to us and will not cause us 
    to stretch for either acquisitions or higher-yielding short-term 
    instruments.  if we find the right sort of business elephant 
    within the next five years or so, the wait will have been 
    worthwhile. 
    
    **miscellaneous **
    
         we hope to buy more businesses that are similar to the ones 
    we have, and we can use some help.  if you have a business that 
    fits the following criteria, call me or, preferably, write. 
    
         here's what we're looking for: 
    
         (1) large purchases (at least $10 million of after-tax 
             earnings), 
    
         (2) demonstrated consistent earning power (future 
             projections are of little interest to us, nor are 
             "turnaround" situations), 
    
         (3) businesses earning good returns on equity while 
             employing little or no debt, 
    
         (4) management in place (we can't supply it), 
    
         (5) simple businesses (if there's lots of technology, 
             we won't understand it), 
    
         (6) an offering price (we don't want to waste our time 
             or that of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, 
             about a transaction when price is unknown). 
     
         we will not engage in unfriendly takeovers.  we can promise 
    complete confidentiality and a very fast answer - customarily 
    within five minutes - as to whether we're interested.  we prefer 
    to buy for cash, but will consider issuing stock when we receive 
    as much in intrinsic business value as we give.  we invite 
    potential sellers to check us out by contacting people with whom 
    we have done business in the past.  for the right business - and 
    the right people - we can provide a good home. 
     
         on the other hand, we frequently get approached about 
    acquisitions that don't come close to meeting our tests: new 
    ventures, turnarounds, auction-like sales, and the ever-popular 
    (among brokers) "i'm-sure-something-will-work-out-if-you-people-
    get-to-know-each-other." none of these attracts us in the least. 
    
         besides being interested in the purchases of entire 
    businesses as described above, we are also interested in the 
    negotiated purchase of large, but not controlling, blocks of 
    stock comparable to those we hold in cap cities and salomon.  we 
    have a special interest in purchasing convertible preferreds as a 
    long-term investment, as we did at salomon. 
    
                              *  *  * 
    
         and now a bit of _deja vu_.  most of berkshire's major 
    stockholders received their shares at yearend 1969 in a 
    liquidating distribution from buffett partnership, ltd.  some of 
    these former partners will remember that in 1962 i encountered 
    severe managerial problems at dempster mill manufacturing co., a 
    pump and farm implement manufacturing company that bpl 
    controlled. 
    
         at that time, like now, i went to charlie with problems that 
    were too tough for me to solve.  charlie suggested the solution 
    might lie in a california friend of his, harry bottle, whose 
    special knack was never forgetting the fundamental.  i met harry 
    in los angeles on april 17, 1962, and on april 23 he was in 
    beatrice, nebraska, running dempster.  our problems disappeared 
    almost immediately.  in my 1962 annual letter to partners, i 
    named harry "man of the year." 
    
         fade to 24 years later: the scene is k & w products, a small 
    berkshire subsidiary that produces automotive compounds.  for 
    years k & w did well, but in 1985-86 it stumbled badly, as it 
    pursued the unattainable to the neglect of the achievable.  
    charlie, who oversees k & w, knew there was no need to consult 
    me.  instead, he called harry, now 68 years old, made him ceo, 
    and sat back to await the inevitable.  he didn't wait long.  in 
    1987 k & w's profits set a record, up more than 300% from 1986.  
    and, as profits went up, capital employed went down: k & w's 
    investment in accounts receivable and inventories has decreased 
    20%. 
    
         if we run into another managerial problem ten or twenty 
    years down the road, you know whose phone will ring. 
    
                              *  *  * 
    
         about 97.2% of all eligible shares participated in 
    berkshire's 1987 shareholder-designated contributions program.  
    contributions made through the program were $4.9 million, and 
    2,050 charities were recipients. 
    
         a recent survey reported that about 50% of major american 
    companies match charitable contributions made by directors 
    (sometimes by a factor of three to one).  in effect, these 
    representatives of the owners direct funds to their favorite 
    charities, and never consult the owners as to their charitable 
    preferences. (i wonder how they would feel if the process were 
    reversed and shareholders could invade the directors' pockets for 
    charities favored by the shareholders.) when a takes money from b 
    to give to c and a is a legislator, the process is called 
    taxation.  but when a is an officer or director of a corporation, 
    it is called philanthropy.  we continue to believe that 
    contributions, aside from those with quite clear direct benefits 
    to the company, should reflect the charitable preferences of 
    owners rather than those of officers and directors. 
    
         we urge new shareholders to read the description of our 
    shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on 
    pages 54 and 55.  if you wish to participate in future programs, 
    we strongly urge that you immediately make sure your shares are 
    registered in the name of the actual owner, not in "street" name 
    or nominee name.  shares not so registered on september 30, l988 
    will be ineligible for the 1988 program. 
     
                              *  *  * 
    
         last year we again had about 450 shareholders at our annual 
    meeting.  the 60 or so questions they asked were, as always, 
    excellent.  at many companies, the annual meeting is a waste of 
    time because exhibitionists turn it into a sideshow.  ours, 
    however, is different.  it is informative for shareholders and 
    fun for us. (at berkshire's meetings, the exhibitionists are on 
    the dais.) 
    
         this year our meeting will be on may 23, 1988 in omaha, and 
    we hope that you come.  the meeting provides the forum for you to 
    ask any owner-related questions you may have, and we will keep 
    answering until all (except those dealing with portfolio 
    activities or other proprietary information) have been dealt 
    with. 
    
         last year we rented two buses - for $100 - to take 
    shareholders interested in the trip to the furniture mart.  your 
    actions demonstrated your good judgment: you snapped up about 
    $40,000 of bargains.  mrs. b regards this expense/sales ratio as 
    on the high side and attributes it to my chronic inattention to 
    costs and generally sloppy managerial practices.  but, gracious 
    as always, she has offered me another chance and we will again 
    have buses available following the meeting.  mrs. b says you must 
    beat last year's sales figures, and i have told her she won't be 
    disappointed. 
    
     
     
                                              warren e. buffett 
    february 29, 1988                         chairman of the board 
    
    

