berkshire hathaway inc.

to the shareholders of berkshire hathaway inc.:

our gain in net worth during 1998 was $25.9 billion, which increased the per-share book value of both our class
a and class b stock by 48.3%. over the last 34 years (that is, since present management took over) per-share book value
has grown from $19 to $37,801, a rate of 24.7% compounded annually.*
normally, a gain of 48.3% would call for handsprings — but not this year. remember wagner, whose music
has been described as better than it sounds? well, berkshire’s progress in 1998 — though more than satisfactory — was not
as good as it looks. that’s because most of that 48.3% gain came from our issuing shares in acquisitions.
to explain: our stock sells at a large premium over book value, which means that any issuing of shares we do
— whether for cash or as consideration in a merger — instantly increases our per-share book-value figure, even though
we’ve earned not a dime. what happens is that we get more per-share book value in such transactions than we give up.
these transactions, however, do not deliver us any immediate gain in per-share intrinsic value, because in this respect
what we give and what we get are roughly equal. and, as charlie munger, berkshire’s vice chairman and my partner,
and i can’t tell you too often (though you may feel that we try), it’s the per-share gain in intrinsic value that counts rather
than the per-share gain in book value. though berkshire’s intrinsic value grew very substantially in 1998, the gain fell
well short of the 48.3% recorded for book value. nevertheless, intrinsic value still far exceeds book value. (for a more
extensive discussion of these terms, and other investment and accounting concepts, please refer to our owner’s manual,
on pages 56-64, in which we set forth our owner-related business principles. intrinsic value is discussed on pages 61 and
62.)
we entered 1999 with the best collection of businesses and managers in our history. the two companies we
acquired in 1998, general re and executive jet, are first-class in every way — more about both later — and the
performance of our operating businesses last year exceeded my hopes. geico, once again, simply shot the lights out.
on the minus side, several of the public companies in which we have major investments experienced significant operating
shortfalls that neither they nor i anticipated early in the year. consequently, our equity portfolio did not perform nearly
as well as did the s&p 500. the problems of these companies are almost certainly temporary, and charlie and i believe
that their long-term prospects are excellent.
in our last three annual reports, we furnished you a table that we regard as central to estimating berkshire's
intrinsic value. in the updated version of that table, which follows, we trace our two key components of value, including
general re on a pro-forma basis as if we had owned it throughout the year. the first column lists our per-share
ownership of investments (including cash and equivalents but excluding securities held in our financial products
operation) and the second column shows our per-share earnings from berkshire's operating businesses before taxes and
purchase-accounting adjustments (discussed on pages 62 and 63), but after all interest and corporate expenses. the
second column excludes all dividends, interest and capital gains that we realized from the investments presented in the
first column. in effect, the columns show how berkshire would look if it were split into two parts, with one entity holding
our investments and the other operating all of our businesses and bearing all corporate costs.

*all figures used in this report apply to berkshire's a shares, the successor to the only stock that the company
had outstanding before 1996. the b shares have an economic interest equal to 1/30th that of the a.

3

investments
per share

year
1968
1978
1988
1998

...........................................
...........................................
...........................................
...........................................

$

pre-tax earnings per share
with all income from
investments excluded

53
465
4,876
47,647

$ 2.87
12.85
145.77
474.45

investments
per share

pre-tax earnings per share
with all income from
investments excluded

1978 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1988 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1998 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

24.2%
26.5%
25.6%

16.2%
27.5%
12.5%

annual growth rate, 1968-1998 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

25.4%

18.6%

here are the growth rates of the two segments by decade:

decade ending

during 1998, our investments increased by $9,604 per share, or 25.2%, but per-share operating earnings fell by
33.9%. general re (included, as noted, on a pro-forma basis) explains both facts. this company has very large
investments, and these greatly increased our per-share investment figure. but general re also had an underwriting loss
in 1998, and that hurt operating earnings. had we not acquired general re, per-share operating earnings would have
shown a modest gain.
though certain of our acquisitions and operating strategies may from time to time affect one column more than the
other, we continually work to increase the figures in both. but one thing is certain: our future rates of gain will fall far
short of those achieved in the past. berkshire’s capital base is now simply too large to allow us to earn truly outsized
returns. if you believe otherwise, you should consider a career in sales but avoid one in mathematics (bearing in mind
that there are really only three kinds of people in the world: those who can count and those who can’t).
currently we are working to compound a net worth of $57.4 billion, the largest of any american corporation
(though our figure will be eclipsed if the merger of exxon and mobil takes place). of course, our lead in net worth does
not mean that berkshire outranks all other businesses in value: market value is what counts for owners and general
electric and microsoft, for example, have valuations more than three times berkshire’s. net worth, though, measures
the capital that managers must deploy, and at berkshire that figure has indeed become huge.
nonetheless, charlie and i will do our best to increase intrinsic value in the future at an average rate of 15%, a
result we consider to be at the very peak of possible outcomes. we may have years when we exceed 15%, but we will
most certainly have other years when we fall far short of that — including years showing negative returns — and those
will bring our average down. in the meantime, you should understand just what an average gain of 15% over the next
five years implies: it means we will need to increase net worth by $58 billion. earning this daunting 15% will require
us to come up with big ideas: popcorn stands just won’t do. today’s markets are not friendly to our search for
“elephants,” but you can be sure that we will stay focused on the hunt.
whatever the future holds, i make you one promise: i’ll keep at least 99% of my net worth in berkshire for as long
as i am around. how long will that be? my model is the loyal democrat in fort wayne who asked to be buried in
chicago so that he could stay active in the party. to that end, i’ve already selected a “power spot” at the office for my
urn.
************
our financial growth has been matched by employment growth: we now have 47,566 on our payroll, with the
acquisitions of 1998 bringing 7,074 employees to us and internal growth adding another 2,500. to balance this gain

4

of 9,500 in hands-on employees, we have enlarged the staff at world headquarters from 12 to 12.8. (the .8 doesn’t refer
to me or charlie: we have a new person in accounting, working four days a week.) despite this alarming trend toward
corporate bloat, our after-tax overhead last year was about $3.5 million, or well under one basis point (.01 of 1%) of the
value of the assets we manage.
taxes
one beneficiary of our increased size has been the u.s. treasury. the federal income taxes that berkshire and
general re have paid, or will soon pay, in respect to 1998 earnings total $2.7 billion. that means we shouldered all of
the u.s. government’s expenses for more than a half-day.
follow that thought a little further: if only 625 other u.s. taxpayers had paid the treasury as much as we and
general re did last year, no one else — neither corporations nor 270 million citizens — would have had to pay federal
income taxes or any other kind of federal tax (for example, social security or estate taxes). our shareholders can truly
say that they “gave at the office.”
writing checks to the irs that include strings of zeros does not bother charlie or me. berkshire as a corporation,
and we as individuals, have prospered in america as we would have in no other country. indeed, if we lived in some
other part of the world and completely escaped taxes, i’m sure we would be worse off financially (and in many other ways
as well). overall, we feel extraordinarily lucky to have been dealt a hand in life that enables us to write large checks to
the government rather than one requiring the government to regularly write checks to us — say, because we are disabled
or unemployed.
berkshire’s tax situation is sometimes misunderstood. first, capital gains have no special attraction for us: a
corporation pays a 35% rate on taxable income, whether it comes from capital gains or from ordinary operations. this
means that berkshire’s tax on a long-term capital gain is fully 75% higher than what an individual would pay on an
identical gain.
some people harbor another misconception, believing that we can exclude 70% of all dividends we receive from
our taxable income. indeed, the 70% rate applies to most corporations and also applies to berkshire in cases where we
hold stocks in non-insurance subsidiaries. however, almost all of our equity investments are owned by our insurance
companies, and in that case the exclusion is 59.5%. that still means a dollar of dividends is considerably more valuable
to us than a dollar of ordinary income, but not to the degree often assumed.
************
berkshire truly went all out for the treasury last year. in connection with the general re merger, we wrote a $30
million check to the government to pay an sec fee tied to the new shares created by the deal. we understand that this
payment set an sec record. charlie and i are enormous admirers of what the commission has accomplished for
american investors. we would rather, however, have found another way to show our admiration.
geico (1-800-847-7536)
combine a great idea with a great manager and you’re certain to obtain a great result. that mix is alive and well
at geico. the idea is low-cost auto insurance, made possible by direct-to-customer marketing, and the manager is tony
nicely. quite simply, there is no one in the business world who could run geico better than tony does. his instincts
are unerring, his energy is boundless, and his execution is flawless. while maintaining underwriting discipline, tony
is building an organization that is gaining market share at an accelerating rate.
this pace has been encouraged by our compensation policies. the direct writing of insurance — that is, without
there being an agent or broker between the insurer and its policyholder — involves a substantial front-end investment.
first-year business is therefore unprofitable in a major way. at geico, we do not wish this cost to deter our associates
from the aggressive pursuit of new business — which, as it renews, will deliver significant profits — so we leave it out
of our compensation formulas. what’s included then? we base 50% of our associates’ bonuses and profit sharing on

5

the earnings of our “seasoned” book, meaning policies that have been with us for more than a year. the other 50% is
tied to growth in policyholders — and here we have stepped on the gas.
in 1995, the year prior to its acquisition by berkshire, geico spent $33 million on marketing and had 652
telephone counselors. last year the company spent $143 million, and the counselor count grew to 2,162. the effects
that these efforts had at the company are shown by the new business and in-force figures below:

years

new auto
policies*

auto policies
in-force*

1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998

1,354,882
1,396,217
1,461,608
1,617,669
1,913,176
1,317,761

2,011,055
2,147,549
2,310,037
2,543,699
2,949,439
3,562,644

* “voluntary” only; excludes assigned risks and the like.
in 1999, we will again increase our marketing budget, spending at least $190 million. in fact, there is no limit to
what berkshire is willing to invest in geico’s new-business activity, as long as we can concurrently build the
infrastructure the company needs to properly serve its policyholders.
because of the first-year costs, companies that are concerned about quarterly or annual earnings would shy from
similar investments, no matter how intelligent these might be in terms of building long-term value. our calculus is
different: we simply measure whether we are creating more than a dollar of value per dollar spent — and if that
calculation is favorable, the more dollars we spend the happier i am.
there is far more to geico’s success, of course, than low prices and a torrent of advertising. the handling of
claims must also be fair, fast and friendly — and ours is. here’s an impartial scorecard on how we shape up: in new
york, our largest-volume state, the insurance department recently reported that geico’s complaint ratio in 1997 was
not only the lowest of the five largest auto insurers but was also less than half the average of the other four.
geico’s 1998 profit margin of 6.7% was better than we had anticipated — and, indeed, better than we wished.
our results reflect an industry-wide phenomenon: in recent years, both the frequency of auto accidents and their severity
have unexpectedly declined. we responded by reducing rates 3.3% in 1998, and we will reduce them still more in 1999.
these moves will soon bring profit margins down — at the least to 4%, which is our target, and perhaps considerably
lower. whatever the case, we believe that our margins will continue to be much better than those of the industry.
with geico’s growth and profitability both outstanding in 1998, so also were its profit-sharing and bonus
payments. indeed, the profit-sharing payment of $103 million or 32.3% of salary — which went to all 9,313 associates
who had been with us for more than a year — may well have been the highest percentage payment at any large company
in the country. (in addition, associates benefit from a company-funded pension plan.)
the 32.3% may turn out to be a high-water mark, given that the profitability component in our profit-sharing
calculation is almost certain to come down in the future. the growth component, though, may well increase. overall,
we expect the two benchmarks together to dictate very significant profit-sharing payments for decades to come. for our
associates, growth pays off in other ways as well: last year we promoted 4,612 people.
impressive as the geico figures are, we have far more to do. our market share improved significantly in 1998
— but only from 3% to 3½%. for every policyholder we now have, there are another ten who should be giving us their
business.
some of you who are reading this may be in that category. about 40% of those who check our rates find that they
can save money by doing business with us. the proportion is not 100% because insurers differ in their underwriting
judgements, with some giving more credit than we do to drivers who live in certain geographical areas or work at certain
occupations. we believe, however, that we more frequently offer the low price than does any other national carrier

6

selling insurance to all comers. furthermore, in 40 states we can offer a special discount — usually 8% — to our
shareholders. so give us a call and check us out.
************
you may think that one commercial in this section is enough. but i have another to present, this one directed at
managers of publicly-owned companies.
at berkshire we feel that telling outstanding ceos, such as tony, how to run their companies would be the height
of foolishness. most of our managers wouldn’t work for us if they got a lot of backseat driving. (generally, they don’t
have to work for anyone, since 75% or so are independently wealthy.) besides, they are the mark mcgwires of the
business world and need no advice from us as to how to hold the bat or when to swing.
nevertheless, berkshire’s ownership may make even the best of managers more effective. first, we eliminate all
of the ritualistic and nonproductive activities that normally go with the job of ceo. our managers are totally in charge
of their personal schedules. second, we give each a simple mission: just run your business as if: 1) you own 100% of
it; 2) it is the only asset in the world that you and your family have or will ever have; and 3) you can’t sell or merge it
for at least a century. as a corollary, we tell them they should not let any of their decisions be affected even slightly by
accounting considerations. we want our managers to think about what counts, not how it will be counted.
very few ceos of public companies operate under a similar mandate, mainly because they have owners who focus
on short-term prospects and reported earnings. berkshire, however, has a shareholder base — which it will have for
decades to come — that has the longest investment horizon to be found in the public-company universe. indeed, a
majority of our shares are held by investors who expect to die still holding them. we can therefore ask our ceos to
manage for maximum long-term value, rather than for next quarter’s earnings. we certainly don’t ignore the current
results of our businesses — in most cases, they are of great importance — but we never want them to be achieved at the
expense of our building ever-greater competitive strengths.
i believe the geico story demonstrates the benefits of berkshire’s approach. charlie and i haven’t taught tony
a thing — and never will — but we have created an environment that allows him to apply all of his talents to what’s
important. he does not have to devote his time or energy to board meetings, press interviews, presentations by investment
bankers or talks with financial analysts. furthermore, he need never spend a moment thinking about financing, credit
ratings or “street” expectations for earnings per share. because of our ownership structure, he also knows that this
operational framework will endure for decades to come. in this environment of freedom, both tony and his company
can convert their almost limitless potential into matching achievements.
if you are running a large, profitable business that will thrive in a geico-like environment, check our acquisition
criteria on page 21 and give me a call. i promise a fast answer and will mention your inquiry to no one except
charlie.
executive jet aviation (1-800-848-6436)
to understand the huge potential at executive jet aviation (eja), you need some understanding of its business,
which is selling fractional shares of jets and operating the fleet for its many owners. rich santulli, ceo of eja, created
the fractional ownership industry in 1986, by visualizing an important new way of using planes. then he combined guts
and talent to turn his idea into a major business.
in a fractional ownership plan, you purchase a portion — say 1/8th — of any of a wide variety of jets that eja
offers. that purchase entitles you to 100 hours of flying time annually. (“dead-head” hours don’t count against your
allotment, and you are also allowed to average your hours over five years.) in addition, you pay both a monthly
management fee and a fee for hours actually flown.
then, on a few hours notice, eja makes your plane, or another at least as good, available to you at your choice of
the 5500 airports in the u.s. in effect, calling up your plane is like phoning for a taxi.

7

i first heard about the netjets® program, as it is called, about four years ago from frank rooney, our manager at
h.h. brown. frank had used and been delighted with the service and suggested that i meet rich to investigate signing
up for my family’s use. it took rich about 15 minutes to sell me a quarter (200 hours annually) of a hawker 1000. since
then, my family has learned firsthand — through flying 900 hours on 300 trips — what a friendly, efficient, and safe
operation eja runs. quite simply, they love this service. in fact, they quickly grew so enthusiastic that i did a
testimonial ad for eja long before i knew there was any possibility of our purchasing the business. i did, however, ask
rich to give me a call if he ever got interested in selling. luckily, he phoned me last may, and we quickly made a $725
million deal, paying equal amounts of cash and stock.
eja, which is by far the largest operator in its industry, has more than 1,000 customers and 163 aircraft (including
23 “core” aircraft that are owned or leased by eja itself, so that it can make sure that service is first-class even during
the times when demand is heaviest). safety, of course, is the paramount issue in any flight operation, and rich’s pilots
— now numbering about 650 — receive extensive training at least twice a year from flightsafety international, another
berkshire subsidiary and the world leader in pilot training. the bottom line on our pilots: i’ve sold the berkshire plane
and will now do all of my business flying, as well as my personal flying, with netjets’ crews.
being the leader in this industry is a major advantage for all concerned. our customers gain because we have an
armada of planes positioned throughout the country at all times, a blanketing that allows us to provide unmatched service.
meanwhile, we gain from the blanketing because it reduces dead-head costs. another compelling attraction for our
clients is that we offer products from boeing, gulfstream, falcon, cessna, and raytheon, whereas our two competitors
are owned by manufacturers that offer only their own planes. in effect, netjets is like a physician who can recommend
whatever medicine best fits the needs of each patient; our competitors, in contrast, are producers of a “house” brand that
they must prescribe for one and all.
in many cases our clients, both corporate and individual, own fractions of several different planes and can therefore
match specific planes to specific missions. for example, a client might own 1/16th of three different jets (each giving it
50 hours of flying time), which in total give it a virtual fleet, obtained for a small fraction of the cost of a single plane.
significantly, it is not only small businesses that can benefit from fractional ownership. already, some of america’s
largest companies use netjets as a supplement to their own fleet. this saves them big money in both meeting peak
requirements and in flying missions that would require their wholly-owned planes to log a disproportionate amount of
dead-head hours.
when a plane is slated for personal use, the clinching argument is that either the client signs up now or his children
likely will later. that’s an equation i explained to my wonderful aunt alice 40 years ago when she asked me whether
she could afford a fur coat. my reply settled the issue: “alice, you aren’t buying it; your heirs are.”
eja’s growth has been explosive: in 1997, it accounted for 31% of all corporate jets ordered in the world.
nonetheless, rich and i believe that the potential of fractional ownership has barely been scratched. if many thousands
of owners find it sensible to own 100% of a plane — which must be used 350-400 hours annually if it’s to make
economic sense — there must be a large multiple of that number for whom fractional ownership works.
in addition to being a terrific executive, rich is fun. like most of our managers, he has no economic need
whatsoever to work. rich spends his time at eja because it’s his baby — and he wants to see how far he can take it.
we both already know the answer, both literally and figuratively: to the ends of the earth.
************
and now a small hint to berkshire directors: last year i spent more than nine times my salary at borsheim’s and
eja. just think how berkshire’s business would boom if you’d only spring for a raise.

8

general re
on december 21, we completed our $22 billion acquisition of general re corp. in addition to owning 100% of
general reinsurance corporation, the largest u.s. property-casualty reinsurer, the company also owns (including stock
it has an arrangement to buy) 82% of the oldest reinsurance company in the world, cologne re. the two companies
together reinsure all lines of insurance and operate in 124 countries.
for many decades, general re’s name has stood for quality, integrity and professionalism in reinsurance — and
under ron ferguson’s leadership, this reputation has been burnished still more. berkshire can add absolutely nothing
to the skills of general re’s and cologne re’s managers. on the contrary, there is a lot that they can teach us.
nevertheless, we believe that berkshire’s ownership will benefit general re in important ways and that its earnings
a decade from now will materially exceed those that would have been attainable absent the merger. we base this
optimism on the fact that we can offer general re’s management a freedom to operate in whatever manner will best allow
the company to exploit its strengths.
let’s look for a moment at the reinsurance business to understand why general re could not on its own do what
it can under berkshire. most of the demand for reinsurance comes from primary insurers who want to escape the wide
swings in earnings that result from large and unusual losses. in effect, a reinsurer gets paid for absorbing the volatility
that the client insurer wants to shed.
ironically, though, a publicly-held reinsurer gets graded by both its owners and those who evaluate its credit on the
smoothness of its own results. wide swings in earnings hurt both credit ratings and p/e ratios, even when the business
that produces such swings has an expectancy of satisfactory profits over time. this market reality sometimes causes a
reinsurer to make costly moves, among them laying off a significant portion of the business it writes (in transactions that
are called “retrocessions”) or rejecting good business simply because it threatens to bring on too much volatility.
berkshire, in contrast, happily accepts volatility, just as long as it carries with it the expectation of increased profits
over time. furthermore, we are a fort knox of capital, and that means volatile earnings can’t impair our premier credit
ratings. thus we have the perfect structure for writing — and retaining — reinsurance in virtually any amount. in fact,
we’ve used this strength over the past decade to build a powerful super-cat business.
what general re gives us, however, is the distribution force, technical facilities and management that will allow
us to employ our structural strength in every facet of the industry. in particular, general re and cologne re can now
accelerate their push into international markets, where the preponderance of industry growth will almost certainly occur.
as the merger proxy statement spelled out, berkshire also brings tax and investment benefits to general re. but the most
compelling reason for the merger is simply that general re’s outstanding management can now do what it does best,
unfettered by the constraints that have limited its growth.
berkshire is assuming responsibility for general re’s investment portfolio, though not for cologne re’s. we will
not, however, be involved in general re’s underwriting. we will simply ask the company to exercise the discipline of
the past while increasing the proportion of its business that is retained, expanding its product line, and widening its
geographical coverage — making these moves in recognition of berkshire’s financial strength and tolerance for wide
swings in earnings. as we’ve long said, we prefer a lumpy 15% return to a smooth 12%.
over time, ron and his team will maximize general re’s new potential. he and i have known each other for
many years, and each of our companies has initiated significant business that it has reinsured with the other. indeed,
general re played a key role in the resuscitation of geico from its near-death status in 1976.
both ron and rich santulli plan to be at the annual meeting, and i hope you get a chance to say hello to them.

9

the economics of property-casualty insurance
with the acquisition of general re — and with geico’s business mushrooming — it becomes more important than ever
that you understand how to evaluate an insurance company. the key determinants are: (1) the amount of float that the
business generates; (2) its cost; and (3) most important of all, the long-term outlook for both of these factors.
to begin with, float is money we hold but don't own. in an insurance operation, float arises because premiums are
received before losses are paid, an interval that sometimes extends over many years. during that time, the insurer invests
the money. typically, this pleasant activity carries with it a downside: the premiums that an insurer takes in usually
do not cover the losses and expenses it eventually must pay. that leaves it running an "underwriting loss," which is the
cost of float. an insurance business has value if its cost of float over time is less than the cost the company would
otherwise incur to obtain funds. but the business is a lemon if its cost of float is higher than market rates for money.
a caution is appropriate here: because loss costs must be estimated, insurers have enormous latitude in figuring
their underwriting results, and that makes it very difficult for investors to calculate a company's true cost of float. errors
of estimation, usually innocent but sometimes not, can be huge. the consequences of these miscalculations flow directly
into earnings. an experienced observer can usually detect large-scale errors in reserving, but the general public can
typically do no more than accept what's presented, and at times i have been amazed by the numbers that big-name
auditors have implicitly blessed. as for berkshire, charlie and i attempt to be conservative in presenting its underwriting
results to you, because we have found that virtually all surprises in insurance are unpleasant ones.
the table that follows shows the float generated by berkshire’s insurance operations since we entered the business
32 years ago. the data are for every fifth year and also the last, which includes general re’s huge float. for the table
we have calculated our float — which we generate in large amounts relative to our premium volume — by adding net
loss reserves, loss adjustment reserves, funds held under reinsurance assumed and unearned premium reserves, and then
subtracting agents balances, prepaid acquisition costs, prepaid taxes and deferred charges applicable to assumed
reinsurance. (got that?)
year

average float
(in $ millions)
17
70
139
221
1,267
2,290
7,093

1967
1972
1977
1982
1987
1992
1997
1998

22,762 (yearend)

impressive as the growth in our float has been — 25.4% compounded annually — what really counts is the cost
of this item. if that becomes too high, growth in float becomes a curse rather than a blessing.
at berkshire, the news is all good: our average cost over the 32 years has been well under zero. in aggregate, we
have posted a substantial underwriting profit, which means that we have been paid for holding a large and growing
amount of money. this is the best of all worlds. indeed, though our net float is recorded on our balance sheet as a
liability, it has had more economic value to us than an equal amount of net worth would have had. as long as we can
continue to achieve an underwriting profit, float will continue to outrank net worth in value.
during the next few years, berkshire’s growth in float may well be modest. the reinsurance market is soft, and
in this business, relationships change slowly. therefore, general re’s float — 2/3rds of our total — is unlikely to
increase significantly in the near term. we do expect, however, that our cost of float will remain very attractive compared
to that of other insurers.

10

sources of reported earnings
the table that follows shows the main sources of berkshire's reported earnings. in this presentation, purchaseaccounting adjustments are not assigned to the specific businesses to which they apply, but are instead aggregated and
shown separately. this procedure lets you view the earnings of our businesses as they would have been reported had we
not purchased them. for the reasons discussed on pages 62 and 63, this form of presentation seems to us to be more
useful to investors and managers than one utilizing generally-accepted accounting principles (gaap), which require
purchase-premiums to be charged off business-by-business. the total earnings we show in the table are, of course,
identical to the gaap total in our audited financial statements.
(in millions)

pre-tax earnings
1998
1997
operating earnings:
insurance group:
underwriting — super-cat . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
underwriting — other reinsurance . . . . . . . . . . .
underwriting — geico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
underwriting — other primary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
net investment income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
buffalo news . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
finance and financial products businesses . . . . . . .
flight services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
home furnishings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
international dairy queen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
jewelry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
scott fetzer (excluding finance operation) . . . . . . . .
see’s candies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
shoe group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
general re . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
purchase-accounting adjustments . . . . . . . . . . . . .
interest expense (4) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
shareholder-designated contributions . . . . . . . . . .
other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
operating earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
capital gains from investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
total earnings - all entities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(1)
(2)

includes executive jet from august 7, 1998 .
includes star furniture from july 1, 1997.

(3)
(4)

$154
(175)
269
17
974
53
205(1)
181
72
58
39
137
62
33(3)
26
(123)
(100)
(17)
34
1,899
2,415
$4,314

$283
(155)
281
53
882
56
28
140(2)
57
—
32
119
59
49
—
(101)
(107)
(15)
60
1,721
1,106
$2,827

berkshire’s share
of net earnings
(after taxes and
minority interests)
1998
1997

$100
(114)
175
10
731
32
133(1)
110
41
35
23
85
40
23(3)
16
(118)
(63)
(11)
29
1,277
1,553
$ 2,830

$183
(100)
181
34
704
33
18
84(2)
32
—
18
77
35
32
—
(94)
(67)
(10)
37
1,197
704
$1,901

from date of acquisition, december 21, 1998.
excludes interest expense of finance businesses.

you can be proud of our operating managers. they almost invariably deliver earnings that are at the very top of
what conditions in their industries allow, meanwhile fortifying their businesses’ long-term competitive strengths. in
aggregate, they have created many billions of dollars of value for you.
an example: in my 1994 letter, i reported on ralph schey’s extraordinary performance at scott fetzer. little did
i realize that he was just warming up. last year scott fetzer, operating with no leverage (except for a conservative level
of debt in its finance subsidiary), earned a record $96.5 million after-tax on its $112 million net worth.

11

today, berkshire has an unusually large number of individuals, such as ralph, who are truly legends in their
industries. many of these joined us when we purchased their companies, but in recent years we have also identified a
number of strong managers internally. we further expanded our corps of all-stars in an important way when we acquired
general re and eja.
charlie and i have the easy jobs at berkshire: we do very little except allocate capital. and, even then, we are not
all that energetic. we have one excuse, though: in allocating capital, activity does not correlate with achievement.
indeed, in the fields of investments and acquisitions, frenetic behavior is often counterproductive. therefore, charlie
and i mainly just wait for the phone to ring.
our managers, however, work very hard — and it shows. naturally, they want to be paid fairly for their efforts,
but pay alone can’t explain their extraordinary accomplishments. instead, each is primarily motivated by a vision of just
how far his or her business can go — and by a desire to be the one who gets it there. charlie and i thank them on your
behalf and ours.
************
additional information about our various businesses is given on pages 39-53, where you will also find our segment
earnings reported on a gaap basis. in addition, on pages 65-71, we have rearranged berkshire's financial data into
four segments on a non-gaap basis, a presentation that corresponds to the way charlie and i think about the company.
normally, we follow this section with one on “look-through” earnings. because the general re acquisition
occurred near yearend, though, neither a historical nor a pro-forma calculation of a 1998 number seems relevant. we
will resume the look-through calculation in next year’s report.
investments
below we present our common stock investments. those with a market value of more than $750 million are
itemized.

shares
50,536,900
200,000,000
51,202,242
60,298,000
96,000,000
1,727,765
63,595,180

company
american express company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
the coca-cola company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
the walt disney company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
freddie mac . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
the gillette company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
the washington post company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
wells fargo & company . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
total common stocks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

12/31/98
cost*
market
(dollars in millions)
$1,470
$ 5,180
1,299
13,400
281
1,536
308
3,885
600
4,590
11
999
392
2,540
2,683
5,135
$ 7,044
$ 37,265

* represents tax-basis cost which, in aggregate, is $1.5 billion less than gaap cost.
during the year, we slightly increased our holdings in american express, one of our three largest
commitments, and left the other two unchanged. however, we trimmed or substantially cut many of our smaller
positions. here, i need to make a confession (ugh): the portfolio actions i took in 1998 actually decreased our
gain for the year. in particular, my decision to sell mcdonald’s was a very big mistake. overall, you would have
been better off last year if i had regularly snuck off to the movies during market hours.

12

at yearend, we held more than $15 billion in cash equivalents (including high-grade securities due in less
than one year). cash never makes us happy. but it’s better to have the money burning a hole in berkshire’s
pocket than resting comfortably in someone else’s. charlie and i will continue our search for large equity
investments or, better yet, a really major business acquisition that would absorb our liquid assets. currently,
however, we see nothing on the horizon.
once we knew that the general re merger would definitely take place, we asked the company to dispose of
the equities that it held. (as mentioned earlier, we do not manage the cologne re portfolio, which includes many
equities.) general re subsequently eliminated its positions in about 250 common stocks, incurring $935 million
of taxes in the process. this “clean sweep” approach reflects a basic principle that charlie and i employ in
business and investing: we don’t back into decisions.
last year i deviated from my standard practice of not disclosing our investments (other than those we are
legally required to report) and told you about three unconventional investments we had made. there were several
reasons behind that disclosure. first, questions about our silver position that we had received from regulatory
authorities led us to believe that they wished us to publicly acknowledge this investment. second, our holdings
of zero-coupon bonds were so large that we wanted our owners to know of this investment’s potential impact on
berkshire’s net worth. third, we simply wanted to alert you to the fact that we sometimes do make unconventional
commitments.
normally, however, as discussed in the owner’s manual on page 61, we see no advantage in talking about
specific investment actions. therefore — unless we again take a position that is particularly large — we will not
post you as to what we are doing in respect to any specific holding of an unconventional sort. we can report,
however, that we have eliminated certain of the positions discussed last year and added certain others.
our never-comment-even-if-untrue policy in regard to investments may disappoint “piggybackers” but will
benefit owners: your berkshire shares would be worth less if we discussed what we are doing. incidentally, we
should warn you that media speculation about our investment moves continues in most cases to be incorrect.
people who rely on such commentary do so at their own peril.
accounting — part 1
our general re acquisition put a spotlight on an egregious flaw in accounting procedure. sharp-eyed
shareholders reading our proxy statement probably noticed an unusual item on page 60. in the pro-forma
statement of income — which detailed how the combined 1997 earnings of the two entities would have been
affected by the merger — there was an item stating that compensation expense would have been increased by $63
million.
this item, we hasten to add, does not signal that either charlie or i have experienced a major personality
change. (he still travels coach and quotes ben franklin.) nor does it indicate any shortcoming in general re’s
accounting practices, which have followed gaap to the letter. instead, the pro-forma adjustment came about
because we are replacing general re’s longstanding stock option plan with a cash plan that ties the incentive
compensation of general re managers to their operating achievements. formerly what counted for these managers
was general re’s stock price; now their payoff will come from the business performance they deliver.
the new plan and the terminated option arrangement have matching economics, which means that the rewards
they deliver to employees should, for a given level of performance, be the same. but what these people could have
formerly anticipated earning from new option grants will now be paid in cash. (options granted in past years
remain outstanding.)
though the two plans are an economic wash, the cash plan we are putting in will produce a vastly different
accounting result. this alice-in-wonderland outcome occurs because existing accounting principles ignore the cost
of stock options when earnings are being calculated, even though options are a huge and increasing expense at a
great many corporations. in effect, accounting principles offer management a choice: pay employees in one form
and count the cost, or pay them in another form and ignore the cost. small wonder then that the use of options

13

has mushroomed. this lop-sided choice has a big downside for owners, however: though options, if properly
structured, can be an appropriate, and even ideal, way to compensate and motivate top managers, they are more
often wildly capricious in their distribution of rewards, inefficient as motivators, and inordinately expensive for
shareholders.
whatever the merits of options may be, their accounting treatment is outrageous. think for a moment of that
$190 million we are going to spend for advertising at geico this year. suppose that instead of paying cash for
our ads, we paid the media in ten-year, at-the-market berkshire options. would anyone then care to argue
that berkshire had not borne a cost for advertising, or should not be charged this cost on its books?
perhaps bishop berkeley — you may remember him as the philosopher who mused about trees falling in a
forest when no one was around — would believe that an expense unseen by an accountant does not exist. charlie
and i, however, have trouble being philosophical about unrecorded costs. when we consider investing in an optionissuing company, we make an appropriate downward adjustment to reported earnings, simply subtracting an amount
equal to what the company could have realized by publicly selling options of like quantity and structure. similarly,
if we contemplate an acquisition, we include in our evaluation the cost of replacing any option plan. then, if we
make a deal, we promptly take that cost out of hiding.
readers who disagree with me about options will by this time be mentally quarreling with my equating the
cost of options issued to employees with those that might theoretically be sold and traded publicly. it is true, to
state one of these arguments, that employee options are sometimes forfeited — that lessens the damage done to
shareholders — whereas publicly-offered options would not be. it is true, also, that companies receive a tax
deduction when employee options are exercised; publicly-traded options deliver no such benefit. but there’s an
offset to these points: options issued to employees are often repriced, a transformation that makes them much more
costly than the public variety.
it’s sometimes argued that a non-transferable option given to an employee is less valuable to him than would
be a publicly-traded option that he could freely sell. that fact, however, does not reduce the cost of the nontransferable option: giving an employee a company car that can only be used for certain purposes diminishes its
value to the employee, but does not in the least diminish its cost to the employer.
the earning revisions that charlie and i have made for options in recent years have frequently cut the
reported per-share figures by 5%, with 10% not all that uncommon. on occasion, the downward adjustment has
been so great that it has affected our portfolio decisions, causing us either to make a sale or to pass on a stock
purchase we might otherwise have made.
a few years ago we asked three questions in these pages to which we have not yet received an answer: “if
options aren’t a form of compensation, what are they? if compensation isn’t an expense, what is it? and, if
expenses shouldn’t go into the calculation of earnings, where in the world should they go?”
accounting — part 2
the role that managements have played in stock-option accounting has hardly been benign: a distressing
number of both ceos and auditors have in recent years bitterly fought fasb’s attempts to replace option fiction
with truth and virtually none have spoken out in support of fasb. its opponents even enlisted congress in the
fight, pushing the case that inflated figures were in the national interest.
still, i believe that the behavior of managements has been even worse when it comes to restructurings and
merger accounting. here, many managements purposefully work at manipulating numbers and deceiving investors.
and, as michael kinsley has said about washington: “the scandal isn’t in what’s done that’s illegal but rather
in what’s legal.”
it was once relatively easy to tell the good guys in accounting from the bad: the late 1960's, for example,
brought on an orgy of what one charlatan dubbed “bold, imaginative accounting” (the practice of which,
incidentally, made him loved for a time by wall street because he never missed expectations). but most investors

14

of that period knew who was playing games. and, to their credit, virtually all of america’s most-admired
companies then shunned deception.
in recent years, probity has eroded. many major corporations still play things straight, but a significant and
growing number of otherwise high-grade managers — ceos you would be happy to have as spouses for your
children or as trustees under your will — have come to the view that it’s okay to manipulate earnings to satisfy
what they believe are wall street’s desires. indeed, many ceos think this kind of manipulation is not only okay,
but actually their duty.
these managers start with the assumption, all too common, that their job at all times is to encourage the
highest stock price possible (a premise with which we adamantly disagree). to pump the price, they strive,
admirably, for operational excellence. but when operations don’t produce the result hoped for, these ceos resort
to unadmirable accounting stratagems. these either manufacture the desired “earnings” or set the stage for them
in the future.
rationalizing this behavior, these managers often say that their shareholders will be hurt if their currency
for doing deals — that is, their stock — is not fully-priced, and they also argue that in using accounting
shenanigans to get the figures they want, they are only doing what everybody else does. once such an
everybody’s-doing-it attitude takes hold, ethical misgivings vanish. call this behavior son of gresham: bad
accounting drives out good.
the distortion du jour is the “restructuring charge,” an accounting entry that can, of course, be legitimate
but that too often is a device for manipulating earnings. in this bit of legerdemain, a large chunk of costs that
should properly be attributed to a number of years is dumped into a single quarter, typically one already fated to
disappoint investors. in some cases, the purpose of the charge is to clean up earnings misrepresentations of the
past, and in others it is to prepare the ground for future misrepresentations. in either case, the size and timing
of these charges is dictated by the cynical proposition that wall street will not mind if earnings fall short by $5
per share in a given quarter, just as long as this deficiency ensures that quarterly earnings in the future will
consistently exceed expectations by five cents per share.
this dump-everything-into-one-quarter behavior suggests a corresponding “bold, imaginative” approach to
— golf scores. in his first round of the season, a golfer should ignore his actual performance and simply fill his
card with atrocious numbers — double, triple, quadruple bogeys — and then turn in a score of, say, 140. having
established this “reserve,” he should go to the golf shop and tell his pro that he wishes to “restructure” his
imperfect swing. next, as he takes his new swing onto the course, he should count his good holes, but not the
bad ones. these remnants from his old swing should be charged instead to the reserve established earlier. at
the end of five rounds, then, his record will be 140, 80, 80, 80, 80 rather than 91, 94, 89, 94, 92. on wall
street, they will ignore the 140 — which, after all, came from a “discontinued” swing — and will classify our
hero as an 80 shooter (and one who never disappoints).
for those who prefer to cheat up front, there would be a variant of this strategy. the golfer, playing alone
with a cooperative caddy-auditor, should defer the recording of bad holes, take four 80s, accept the plaudits he
gets for such athleticism and consistency, and then turn in a fifth card carrying a 140 score. after rectifying his
earlier scorekeeping sins with this “big bath,” he may mumble a few apologies but will refrain from returning
the sums he has previously collected from comparing scorecards in the clubhouse. (the caddy, need we add, will
have acquired a loyal patron.)
unfortunately, ceos who use variations of these scoring schemes in real life tend to become addicted to the
games they’re playing — after all, it’s easier to fiddle with the scorecard than to spend hours on the practice tee
— and never muster the will to give them up. their behavior brings to mind voltaire’s comment on sexual
experimentation: “once a philosopher, twice a pervert.”
in the acquisition arena, restructuring has been raised to an art form: managements now frequently use
mergers to dishonestly rearrange the value of assets and liabilities in ways that will allow them to both smooth
and swell future earnings. indeed, at deal time, major auditing firms sometimes point out the possibilities for a
little accounting magic (or for a lot). getting this push from the pulpit, first-class people will frequently stoop

15

to third-class tactics. ceos understandably do not find it easy to reject auditor-blessed strategies that lead to
increased future “earnings.”
an example from the property-casualty insurance industry will illuminate the possibilities. when a p-c
company is acquired, the buyer sometimes simultaneously increases its loss reserves, often substantially. this boost
may merely reflect the previous inadequacy of reserves — though it is uncanny how often an actuarial “revelation”
of this kind coincides with the inking of a deal. in any case, the move sets up the possibility of ‘earnings”
flowing into income at some later date, as reserves are released.
berkshire has kept entirely clear of these practices: if we are to disappoint you, we would rather it be with
our earnings than with our accounting. in all of our acquisitions, we have left the loss reserve figures exactly
as we found them. after all, we have consistently joined with insurance managers knowledgeable about their
business and honest in their financial reporting. when deals occur in which liabilities are increased immediately
and substantially, simple logic says that at least one of those virtues must have been lacking — or, alternatively,
that the acquirer is laying the groundwork for future infusions of “earnings.”
here’s a true story that illustrates an all-too-common view in corporate america. the ceos of two large
banks, one of them a man who’d made many acquisitions, were involved not long ago in a friendly merger
discussion (which in the end didn’t produce a deal). the veteran acquirer was expounding on the merits of the
possible combination, only to be skeptically interrupted by the other ceo: “but won’t that mean a huge charge,”
he asked, “perhaps as much as $1 billion?” the “sophisticate” wasted no words: “we’ll make it bigger than that
— that’s why we’re doing the deal.”
a preliminary tally by r. g. associates, of baltimore, of special charges taken or announced during 1998
— that is, charges for restructuring, in-process r&d, merger-related items, and write-downs — identified no less
than 1,369 of these, totaling $72.1 billion. that is a staggering amount as evidenced by this bit of perspective:
the 1997 earnings of the 500 companies in fortune’s famous list totaled $324 billion.
clearly the attitude of disrespect that many executives have today for accurate reporting is a business
disgrace. and auditors, as we have already suggested, have done little on the positive side. though auditors
should regard the investing public as their client, they tend to kowtow instead to the managers who choose them
and dole out their pay. (“whose bread i eat, his song i sing.”)
a big piece of news, however, is that the sec, led by its chairman, arthur levitt, seems determined to get
corporate america to clean up its act. in a landmark speech last september, levitt called for an end to “earnings
management.” he correctly observed, “too many corporate managers, auditors and analysts are participants in
a game of nods and winks.” and then he laid on a real indictment: “managing may be giving way to
manipulating; integrity may be losing out to illusion.”
i urge you to read the chairman’s speech (you can find it on the internet at www.sec.gov) and to support
him in his efforts to get corporate america to deliver a straight story to its owners. levitt’s job will be
herculean, but it is hard to think of another more important for him to take on.
reports to shareholders
berkshire’s internet site, www.berkshirehathaway.com, has become a prime source for information about the
company. while we continue to send an annual report to all shareholders, we now send quarterlies only to those
who request them, letting others read these at our site. in this report, we again enclose a card that can be
returned by those wanting to get printed quarterlies in 1999.
charlie and i have two simple goals in reporting: 1) we want to give you the information that we would
wish you to give us if our positions were reversed; and 2) we want to make berkshire’s information accessible
to all of you simultaneously. our ability to reach that second goal is greatly helped by the internet.
in another portion of his september speech, arthur levitt deplored what he called “selective disclosure.”
his remarks were timely: today, many companies matter-of-factly favor wall street analysts and institutional

16

investors in a variety of ways that often skirt or cross the line of unfairness. these practices leave the great bulk
of shareholders at a distinct disadvantage to a favored class.
at berkshire, we regard the holder of one share of b stock as the equal of our large institutional investors.
we, of course, warmly welcome institutions as owners and have gained a number of them through the general
re merger. we hope also that these new holders find that our owner’s manual and annual reports offer them
more insights and information about berkshire than they garner about other companies from the investor relations
departments that these corporations typically maintain. but if it is “earnings guidance” or the like that
shareholders or analysts seek, we will simply guide them to our public documents.
this year we plan to post our quarterly reports on the internet after the close of the market on may 14,
august 13, and november 12. we also expect to put the 1999 annual report on our website on saturday, march
11, 2000, and to mail the print version at roughly the same time.
we promptly post press releases on our website. this means that you do not need to rely on the versions
of these reported by the media but can instead read the full text on your computer.
despite the pathetic technical skills of your chairman, i’m delighted to report that geico, borsheim’s,
see’s, and the buffalo news are now doing substantial business via the internet. we’ve also recently begun to
offer annuity products on our website. this business was developed by ajit jain, who over the last decade has
personally accounted for a significant portion of berkshire’s operating earnings. while charlie and i sleep, ajit
keeps thinking of new ways to add value to berkshire.
shareholder-designated contributions
about 97.5% of all eligible shares participated in berkshire's 1998 shareholder-designated contributions
program, with contributions totaling $16.9 million. a full description of the program appears on pages 54-55.
cumulatively, over the 18 years of the program, berkshire has made contributions of $130 million pursuant
to the instructions of our shareholders. the rest of berkshire's giving is done by our subsidiaries, which stick
to the philanthropic patterns that prevailed before they were acquired (except that their former owners themselves
take on the responsibility for their personal charities). in aggregate, our subsidiaries made contributions of $12.5
million in 1998, including in-kind donations of $2.0 million.
to participate in future programs, you must own class a shares that are registered in the name of the actual
owner, not the nominee name of a broker, bank or depository. shares not so registered on august 31, 1999, will
be ineligible for the 1999 program. when you get the contributions form from us, return it promptly so that it
does not get put aside or forgotten. designations received after the due date will not be honored.
the annual meeting
this year’s woodstock for capitalists will be held may 1-3, and we may face a problem. last year more
than 10,000 people attended our annual meeting, and our shareholders list has since doubled. so we don’t quite
know what attendance to expect this year. to be safe, we have booked both aksarben coliseum, which holds
about 14,000 and the holiday convention centre, which can seat an additional 5,000. because we know that our
omaha shareholders will want to be good hosts to the out-of-towners (many of them come from outside the u.s),
we plan to give those visitors first crack at the aksarben tickets and to subsequently allocate these to greater
omaha residents on a first-come, first-served basis. if we exhaust the aksarben tickets, we will begin distributing
holiday tickets to omaha shareholders.
if we end up using both locations, charlie and i will split our pre-meeting time between the two.
additionally, we will have exhibits and also the berkshire movie, large television screens and microphones at both
sites. when we break for lunch, many attendees will leave aksarben, which means that those at holiday can,
if they wish, make the five-minute trip to aksarben and finish out the day there. buses will be available to
transport people who don’t have cars.

17

the doors will open at both locations at 7 a.m. on monday, and at 8:30 we will premier the 1999 berkshire
movie epic, produced by marc hamburg, our cfo. the meeting will last from 9:30 until 3:30, interrupted only
by the short lunch break.
an attachment to the proxy material that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain the badge
you will need for admission to the meeting and other events. as for plane, hotel and car reservations, we have
again signed up american express (800-799-6634) to give you special help. in our normal fashion, we will run
buses from the larger hotels to the meeting. after the meeting, these will make trips back to the hotels and to
nebraska furniture mart, borsheim’s and the airport. even so, you are likely to find a car useful.
the full line of berkshire products will be available at aksarben, and the more popular items will also be
at holiday. last year we set sales records across-the-board, moving 3,700 pounds of see’s candy, 1,635 pairs of
dexter shoes, 1,150 sets of quikut knives and 3,104 berkshire shirts and hats. additionally, $26,944 of world
book products were purchased as well as more than 2,000 golf balls with the berkshire hathaway logo. charlie
and i are pleased but not satisfied with these numbers and confidently predict new records in all categories this
year. our 1999 apparel line will be unveiled at the meeting, so please defer your designer purchases until you
view our collection.
dairy queen will also be on hand and will again donate all proceeds to the children’s miracle network.
last year we sold about 4,000 dilly® bars, fudge bars and vanilla/orange bars. additionally, geico will have
a booth that will be manned by a number of our top counselors from around the country, all of them ready to
supply you with auto insurance quotes. in almost all cases, geico will be able to offer you a special
shareholder’s discount. check out whether we can save you some money.
the piece de resistance of our one-company trade show will be a 79-foot-long, nearly 12-foot-wide, fullyoutfitted cabin of a 737 boeing business jet (“bbj”), which is netjets’ newest product. this plane has a 14-hour
range; is designed to carry 19 passengers; and offers a bedroom, an office, and two showers. deliveries to
fractional owners will begin in the first quarter of 2000.
the bbj will be available for your inspection on may 1-3 near the entrance to the aksarben hall. you
should be able to minimize your wait by making your visit on saturday or sunday. bring along your checkbook
in case you decide to make an impulse purchase.
nfm's multi-stored complex, located on a 75-acre site about a mile from aksarben, is open from 10 a.m.
to 9 p.m. on weekdays, and 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on saturdays and sundays. this operation did $300 million in
business during 1998 and offers an unrivaled breadth of merchandise — furniture, electronics, appliances, carpets
and computers — all at can’t-be-beat prices. during the april 30th to may 4th period, shareholders presenting
their meeting badge will receive a discount that is customarily given only to its employees.
borsheim's normally is closed on sunday but will be open for shareholders from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on may
2nd. on annual meeting weekend last year, the store did an incredible amount of business. sales were double
those of the previous year, and the store’s volume on sunday greatly exceeded volume for any day in borsheim’s
history. charlie attributes this record to the fact that he autographed sales tickets that day and, while i have my
doubts about this proposition, we are not about to mess with a winning formula. please give him writer’s cramp.
on last year’s sunday, borsheim’s wrote 2,501 tickets during the eight hours it was open. for those of you who
are mathematically challenged, that is one ticket every 11½ seconds.
shareholders who wish to avoid sunday’s crowd can visit borsheim’s on saturday (10 a.m.-5:30 p.m.) or
on monday (10 a.m.-8 p.m.). be sure to identify yourself as a berkshire owner so that susan jacques, borsheim’s
ceo, can quote you a ”shareholder-weekend” price. susan joined us in 1983 as a $4-per-hour salesperson and
was made ceo in 1994. this move ranks as one of my best managerial decisions.
bridge players can look forward to a thrill on sunday, when bob hamman — the best the game has ever
seen — will turn up to play with our shareholders in the mall outside of borsheim’s. bob plays without sorting
his cards — hey, maybe that’s what’s wrong with my game. we will also have a couple of other tables at which
another expert or two will be playing.

18

gorat’s — my favorite steakhouse — will again be open especially for berkshire shareholders on the sunday
night before the meeting. though gorat’s served from 4 p.m. until about 1 a.m. last year, its crew was swamped,
and some of our shareholders had an uncomfortable wait. this year fewer reservations will be accepted, and we
ask that you don’t come on sunday without a reservation. in other years, many of our shareholders have chosen
to visit gorat’s on friday, saturday or monday. you can make reservations beginning on april 1 (but not before)
by calling 402-551-3733. the cognoscenti will continue to order rare t-bones with double orders of hash browns.
the omaha golden spikes (neé the omaha royals) will meet the iowa cubs on saturday evening, may 1st,
at rosenblatt stadium. your chairman, whose breaking ball had the crowd buzzing last year, will again take
the mound. this year i plan to introduce my “flutterball.” it’s a real source of irritation to me that many view
our annual meeting as a financial event rather than the sports classic i consider it to be. once the world sees
my flutterball, that misperception will be erased.
our proxy statement includes instructions about obtaining tickets to the game and also a large quantity of
other information that should help you to enjoy your visit. i particularly urge the 60,000 shareholders that we
gained through the gen re merger to join us. come and meet your fellow capitalists.
* * * * * * * * * * * *
it wouldn’t be right to close without a word about the 11.8 people who work with me in berkshire’s
corporate office. in addition to handling the myriad of tax, regulatory and administrative matters that come with
owning dozens of businesses, this group efficiently and cheerfully manages various special projects, some of which
generate hundreds of inquiries. here’s a sample of what went on in 1998:

•

6,106 shareholders designated 3,880 charities to receive contributions.

•

kelly muchemore processed about 17,500 admission tickets for the annual meeting, along with
orders and checks for 3,200 baseball tickets.

•

kelly and marc hamburg produced and directed the aksarben extravaganza, a job that required
them to arrange the presentations made by our subsidiaries, prepare our movie, and sometimes lend
people a hand with travel and lodging.

•

debbie bosanek satisfied the varying needs of the 46 media organizations (13 of them non-u.s.)
that covered the meeting, and meanwhile, as always, skillfully assisted me in every aspect of my
job.

•

debbie and marc assembled the data for our annual report and oversaw the production and
distribution of 165,000 copies. (this year the number will be 325,000.)

•

marc handled 95% of the details — and much of the substance — connected with our completing
two major mergers.

•

kelly, debbie and deb ray dealt efficiently with tens of thousands of requests for annual reports
and financial information that came through the office.

you and i are paying for only 11.8 people, but we are getting what would at most places be the output of
100. to all of the 11.8, my thanks.

march 1, 1999

warren e. buffett
chairman of the board

19

