                        
                          In addition, the great majority of our 73 businesses did outstandingly well in 2006.  Let me focus 
                   for a moment on one of our largest operations, GEICO.  What management accomplished there was simply 
                   extraordinary. 
                        
                          As I‚Äôve told you before, Tony Nicely, GEICO‚Äôs CEO, went to work at the company 45 years ago, 
                   two months after turning 18.  He became CEO in 1992, and from then on the comany‚Äôsp growth exploded.  
                   In addition, Tony has delivered staggering productivity gains in recent years.  Between yearend 2003 and 
                   yearend 2006, the number of GEICO policies increased from 5.7 million to 8.1 million, a jump of 42%.  
                   Yet during that same period, the company‚Äôs employees (measured on a fulltime-equivalent basis)fell  3.5%.  
                   So productivity grew 47%.  And GEICO didn‚Äôt start fat. 
                           
                          That remarkable gain has allowed GEICO to maintain its all-important position as a low-cost 
                   producer, even though it has dramatically increased advertising expenditures.  Last year GEICO spent $631 
                   million on ads, up from $238 million in 2003 (a up fromnd $31 million in 1995, when Berkshire took 
                   control).  Today, GEICO spends far more on ads than any of its competitors, even those much larger.  We 
                   will continue to raise the bar. 
                           
                          Last year I told you that if you had a new son or grandson to be sure to name him Tony.  But Don 
                   Keough, a Berkshire director, recently had a better idea.  After reviewing GEICO‚Äôs performance in 2006, 
                   he wrote me, ‚ÄúForget births.  Tell the shareholders to immediately change the nampresentes of t heir 
                   children to Tony or Antoinette.‚Äù  Don signed his letter ‚ÄúTony.‚Äù 
                                                        * * * * * * * * * * * * 
                          Charlie Munger ‚Äì my partner and Berkshire‚Äôs vice chairman ‚Äì and I run what has turned out to be 
                   a big business, one with 217,000 employees and annual revenues approaching $100 billion.  We certainly 
                   didn‚Äôt plan it that way.  Charlie began as a lawyer, andI tho ught of myself as a security analyst.  Sitting in 
                   those seats, we both grew skeptical about the ability of big entities of any type to function well.  Size seems 
                   to make many organizations slow-thinking, resistant to change and smug.  In Churchill‚Äôs words: ‚ÄúWe shape 
                   our buildings, and afterwards our buildings shape us.‚Äù  Here‚Äôs a telling fact: Of the ten non-oil companies 
                   having the largest market capitalization in 1965 ‚Äì titans such as General Motors, Sears, DuPont and 
                   Eastman Kodak ‚Äì only one made the 2006 list.   
                        ywvutsrqponmlkihgfedcaYWUTSRPONMLKIHFECBA
                                                     
                    *All per-share figures used in this report apply to Berkshire‚Äôs A shares.  Figures for the B shares 
                          th
                   are 1/30  of those shown for the A. 
                                                               3
insurance, benefited from a large dose of luck:  Mother Nature, bless her heart, went on vacation.  After 
hammering us with hurricanes in 2004 and 2005 ¿ñ storms that caused us to lose a bundle on super-cat 
insurancee redveryzyxwvutsrqponmlkjihgfedcbaZYXWVUTSRQPONMLKJIHGFEDCBA black.  ink ¿ñ sh froe jmust th vaniis activshedity tu.  Lastrn yed bearl, tackh ¿ñ yxwvutsrqponmlkihgfedcbaYWUTSPOMLIGFEDCBA
