                    
                          Overall, our 76 operating businesses did well last year.  The few that had problems were primarily 
                   those linked to housing, among them our brick, carpet and real estate brokerage operations.  Their setbacks 
                   are minor and temporary.  Our competitive position in these businesses remains strong, and we have first-
                   class CEOs who run them right, in good times or bad. 
                           
                          Some major financial institutions have, howeveexperiern, ced staggering problems because they 
                   engaged in the “weakened lending practices” I described in last year’s letter.  John Stumpf, CEO of Wells 
                   Fargo, aptly dissected the recent behavior of many lenders: “It is interesting that the industry has invented 
                   new ways to lose money when the old ways seemed to work just fine.” 
                           
                          You may recall a 2003 Silicon Valley bumper sticker that implored, “Please, God, Just One More 
                   Bubble.”  Unfortunately, this wish was promptly granted, as just about all Americans came to believe that 
                   house prices would forever rise.  That convicn mtio ade a borrower’s in and cash ecomequity seem 
                   unimportant to lenders, who shoveled out money, confident that HPA – house price appreciation – would 
                   cure all problems.  Today, our country is expewidesriencipreang d pain because of that erroneous belief.  
                   As house prices fall, a huge amount of financial folly is being exposed.  You only learn who has been 
                   swimming naked when the tide goes out – and what we are witnessing at some of our largest financial 
                   institutions is an ugly sight. 
                           
                          Turning to happier thoughts, we can report that Berkshire’s newest acquisitions of size, TTI and 
                   Iscar, led by their CEOs, Paul Andrews and Jacob Harpaz respectively, performed magnificently in 2007.  
                   Iscar is as impressive a manufacturing operation as ve seen, a view I’ I reported last year and that was 
                   confirmed by a visit I made in the fall to its extraordinary plant in Korea. 
                    
                          Finally, our insurance business – the cornerstone of Berkshire – had an excellent year.  Part of the 
                   reason is that we have the best collection of insurance managers in the business – more about them later.  
                   But we also were very lucky in 2007, the second year in a row free of major insured catastrophes. 
                    
                          That party is over.  It’s a certzyxwvutsrqponmlkihgfedcbaYUTSPONMLIGFECBAainty that insurance-industry profit margins, including ours, will fall 
                   significantly in 2008.  Prices are down, and exposures inexorably rise.  Even if the U.S. has its third 
                   consecutive catastrophe-light year, industry profit minas will prgrobably shrink by four percentage points 
                   or so.  If the winds roar or the earth trembles, results cfaoulr d be worse.  So be prepared for lower 
                   insurance earnings during the next few years. 
                    ywvutsrqponmlkihgfedcbaYWUTSRPONMKJIHGFECBA
                   Yardsticks 
                    
                          Berkshire has two major areas of value.  The first is our investments: stocks, bonds and cash 
                   equivalents.  At yearend these totaled $141 billion (not counting those in our finance or utility operations, 
                   which we assign to our second bucket of value). 
                    
                                                    
                    *All per-share figures used in this report apply to Berkshire’s A shares.  Figures for the B shares 
                         th
                   are 1/30  of those shown for the A. 
                                                             3
zyxwvutsrqponmlkjihgfedcbaYXWVUTSRQPONMLKJIHGFEDCBA
